I've four three two hello Sam Harris hey
ma'am
good to see ya happy to be here I listen
to your podcast with Jack let's just get
right into the jump in the jak stuff
yeah because I listened to your podcast
with Jack and I found something very
when I did my podcast with Jack first of
all was not anticipating the blowback
that I received it was stunning but he
what what I thought was I was gonna have
a conversation with this guy be fun see
what it's like to run this gigantic
network that helps people communicate
okay Jamie helps people communicate and
distribute information worldwide what
does it like to start something like
that up and have it become what it is
like how have you managed to try to keep
up with it and what of the headaches Ben
and apparently people online
particularly the people that want to
comment about this all they wanted to
know about was censorship and that was
an issue with me there was a question
with me but it became a far was a far
bigger question for people online they
felt like that I tossed him softball
questions and that I didn't press him
yeah and then I listened to your podcast
and one thing about Jack is very smart
guy very nice guy but he talks in a very
slow and methodical way and when you ask
him a question he takes these routes and
if you don't want to jump in and press
him like you're in this weird situation
where he's not totally answering your
question but he's talking about the same
subject that you talk to like for
instance you brought up Louis Farrakhan
right like how was Louis Farrakhan and
good standing on a platform and someone
like you know fill in the blank Milo
yeah innopolis or Laurel umer or whoever
it was they get kicked off he never got
to that he went around and around and
around with you and he recognized this
after the podcast I received a lot of
blowback he received a lot of blowback
so I contacted him and he said he would
be more than happy to come back on again
and address all these things and I said
okay what I'd like to do is address
specific instances of people being
censored and he said okay what I'll do
is I'll bring in someone from the
company that's in charge of that stuff
right so I'm starting to put together a
pick
sure of what it's like to be a CEO of
something as big and he's also a CEO of
square he runs the cash app there's a
lot of stuff going on there right so it
he's obviously busy
how much day-to-day involvement does he
actually have and who gets censored and
why they get censored and how much is he
willing to share about that so we're
gonna find out in the next follow up
podcast but I got accused of everything
from being a shill to being a cock to
being and there's also an issue that
you've a managed to avoid wisely so of
advertising the cash haps an advertiser
on my podcast
so because the cash apps and advertisers
are on my podcast right the man had you
by the throat exactly I think that ask
all those great questions that were
queued up the reality is those are the
questions I would have asked now that's
hard to say because no one's gonna
believe it but those are the questions I
was asked and I tried not to be too
confrontational with aghast but in
hindsight I probably could have pressed
more particularly on people like Kathy
Griffin calling for daxing for the the
kid with the maggot hat on with a Native
American there was there's a quite a few
but I noticed that well what was your
experience like with it yeah so it's
interesting cuz you and I have we had
different interviews because there were
time differently I mean this is
interesting topic cause this opens the
door to all the ways in which our
podcasts are different I mean they you
stream live I sit on my podcast for at
least a week sand in Jack's case it was
like two weeks before I released it so I
did my interview with him before this
flurry of interviews with him came out I
mean there's a rolling stone interview
there was a I think only well I think
maybe a Huffington Post interview would
come out but basically there was nothing
out there so I had no real examples of
how he dealt with these questions or how
he talked yeah yeah well I mean slow
talking is not a problem for me because
I'm one of the great slow talker so so
we're in a groove there but he III
didn't know what his boilerplate was and
and how he would he would answer any of
these questions and your podcast came
out before mine did but mine what mine
was before the Covington high school
Catholic know what Circus happened right
so the the real missed opportunity for
me was just a sheer matter of timing
like I you know because the Covington
thing puts such a fine point on
everything that's wrong with Twitter and
the way journalism interacts with it
right it was it just you know I think it
was Farhad Manjoo wrote an op-ed in The
New York Times saying Twitter is
destroyed journalism and and and it was
not a crazy op-ed in fact after the
Covington thing and the holy and Kathy
Griffin would have been a perfect
example to talk about it like we you
know why is she still on if she's
calling for the dog scene right yeah but
you know I I think I had a substantially
similar interview with him that you did
because he's there's two things one is
he's great at sort of pure wedding
around the the the sharp pointed
question of you know what is the policy
and why why are you applying it in this
seemingly disparate way and it seems to
skew politically in one direction all
the time right
but you know I think you also I mean you
know I did I think you did naturally we
cut him some slack in that he's the CEO
of these two corporations he can't be
expected to actually know what happened
in every one of these micro cases like I
think I brought up the case of I think
her name is Megan Murphy I hadn't even
heard of her but that's the lesbian
woman she was like a feminist who said
sort of the wrong thing in the
transgender space she said something
like men are not women right and she got
banned and a life or to know it I think
it was temporary but you know sorry I
raised it and you know he obviously
can't know exactly what happened in that
case or at least it would be surprising
to me if he knew so the fact that he
doesn't have his finger on each one of
these cases and what the what the
rationale was and he has this sort of
generic answer that what you're seeing
you know in public is not necessarily
what we're seeing in fact in virtually
every actionable case is not what we're
seeing in private with respect to how
these people are opening opening
multiple accounts and doing seemingly
nefarious stuff behind the scenes now
whether that is true I don't know but I
mean I can just say that
Jack seemed one I liked him and he
seemed unusually open to talking about
anything I wanted to talk about it sighs
I saw one allegation that got ahold of
you was that you know you must have been
constrained by you know the topics you
couldn't touch in advance you must have
had some agreement with him in advance
you know it didn't happen with me right
now I should address that there was no
no discussion whatsoever about what was
off-limits yeah no nothing and he asked
for note so in my case I tell all my
guests and this is the difference
between you streaming live and and me
not I tell um I guess listen if at any
point in this interview you put your
foot in your mouth or I put my foot in
there we can edit it right like we I
want you I want you to be totally happy
with what you say over the next two or
three hours mm so if you have to take
something again take it again and you
know we'll just hide the seams as we go
now that virtually never happens right
and in Jack's case it there wasn't even
a wrinkle like that so but you know I
just you know I I recognize it's a
high-wire act for a lot of these people
especially for someone's running to
publicly traded companies right and you
know I also want to invited him on I
said I said Jack you know yeah we were
DM and on Twitter I said listen I
promise I'm not gonna make you smoke a
blunt on video and that got him so I
don't know how you got him but I didn't
try to get him just looking but I didn't
even think about it yeah we weren't
drinking we were just talked maybe we'd
been better if we were drinking because
it did seem very stiff I listened to it
after the fact and I mean I get from
their anticipation why it would be
disappointing I just thought it was kind
of boring I thought my podcast with them
just wasn't very good I sometimes do too
many podcasts and when I sometimes do
too many podcasts I think I run low on
juice and I'm not as I don't know I'm
not as engaged or I'm not as fired up
about it and maybe I just should have
definitely should have prepared more for
him but I really thought it was just
going to be a conversation about what
it's like and I thought that would be
really easy to do yeah because it's such
a unique position to be running
something like Twitter but he you know I
don't know if he was evasive and because
he didn't know the things or because he
didn't want to talk about
things but there was things like he
didn't know exactly why Alex Jones was
ultimately banned he didn't he couldn't
recall or didn't know no is that because
he couldn't recall is because he didn't
want to talk about it or is it because
he didn't remember it I mean I don't
know I mean you'd have to you have to be
inside his head to get that answer yeah
I mean he's clearly got a a very
practice line that he uses to answer
these questions and because I you know I
know what it's like to have boilerplate
now you know I've been a book on a book
tour and you're just basically getting
asked the same questions again and again
and here he's getting asked fairly
pointed questions about you know where
Twitter's going and he's got you know I
don't think this is dishonest I just
think but it has this amazing ability to
close the door to further inquiry
because he gives you the full maiya
culpa right up front you ask like what's
what's the situation with you know the
seemingly asymmetrical banding of people
and he'll say you know yeah we really I
mean we got to get much better at
communicating our process we're not
nearly transparent enough this whole
thing is in disarray and my job is to
fix it right so it's like a global you
know we're fucked up and we're gonna get
better I promise you right yeah and
there's do any good for the people that
already band but there's not a lot to
get right on that right in an interview
yes so it's it worked whether you know I
don't think it's nefarious I think it
could well be totally honest but it does
have this this effect of you just keep
reaching a certain kind of brick wall
that you know was gonna be there you
know yeah that's I felt that too and I
didn't didn't really get that very well
and that was a big part of the blowback
but then the blowback was accentuated
when they found out that he sponsors me
as the catch app is one of his
businesses and it sponsors the podcast
yeah yeah well I had a very similar
result and I don't have that that
problem so as you know that I don't
think that diagnoses your situation at
all but it's very interesting the
difference between these business the
business models under which we run our
podcasts and just the different I mean
just every choice you make and how to
produce a podcast I essentially have
made the opposite one you
like streaming live like this mm-hmm the
fact that you're so that this is just
all very interesting to make so I'm kind
of a reluctant student of digital media
now because I've just kind of stumbled
into this Wild West that you know you
and large part have invented right I
mean this podcast in space was nothing
and now we've got Spotify you know
buying up and it's like a land grab for
audio yeah that we were talking about
that before the podcast they just
purchased some company was it given what
is it called yeah for some ungodly
amount of money yeah like two hundred
million dollars not gonna spend five
hundred this year or something and so
it's it's this we're all just making
this up and you know I'm making and you
know I've just released a meditation app
which is a different business model
still and so now I have these kind of
two parallel digital businesses
happening in my life and it's um it's
just very interesting the decisions you
make or a force to make and the
consequences of it and so like the fact
that we're having this conversation live
you don't even have to think about
whether you're gonna edit this right
because it's like it's streaming live
and you know we're gonna when we're done
we're gonna turn off the mics and walk
out of here and your job is done with my
podcast that's not the workflow at all
and I saw I I totally envy this this
approach that you have but for a variety
of reasons I feel like I can't take it
in in my life and so it's means but it
is very different it dictates many
choices you know down the line which I
mean there's there's a positive and
negative but it's you know the positive
is what you hear is what we got and
we're done after we turn these mics off
and that's and that's not you know
that's not how I podcast there's also
the visual element of it and the visual
element of it and initially was almost
like a side effect I mean we we first
started it out visually but then when it
started going to iTunes the iTunes
aspect of it became the focus the audio
version of it rather became the focus
but then we decided to stream on YouTube
and put it up on YouTube and but it was
totally not profitable it was just for
for a goof like oh we'll have the video
up why not
some people like video it was one of
those things but then you realize
ultimately that YouTube becomes a viable
source of revenue and then it's also the
a lot of people like to watch it you
know and they also like to watch because
they can comment under it that was the
other thing that came out of the jak
podcast we got into a controversy about
comments and about how comments are
deleted or how they're shown in hidden
and what happens because people were
accusing Jamie of deleting all the
derogatory comments that we don't touch
any we don't we don't delete any of them
we don't do anything to them we just
leave them up there and it's a mostly a
cesspool but I mean even even on a good
podcast there's a lot of crazy shit that
happens on these things but from what we
think and Jamie correct me if I'm wrong
you think that what's going on is that
people are marking other people's posts
as spam yeah there's that and then
Brandon also has the theory that a lot
of alt-right people are targeted by the
algorithm that YouTube uses like in in
in one case there was a guy who had a
Pepe the Frog avatar and he said like
his his comment immediately went to spam
and that the other thing is that the
comments are curated depending upon who
is watching it and what account it'll be
they'll be different sort of yeah
they'll propagate different comments to
the top it's not a this you can actually
change it if you if you prefer to see
the most new comment like your own
personal YouTube when you're watching
you you as a viewer yes or user of
YouTube have to make that actual yeah so
that exact conspiracy theory just
heightened the whole thing right okay
now they're deleting negative comments
like look I don't like doing bad podcast
but I will be the first one to tell you
when I think a podcast sucked yeah that
podcast was definitely disappointing it
wasn't good
mine wasn't good it was like I said when
I listened to it was like god this is
kind of boring yeah this wasn't it
wasn't juicy
there was nothing he we didn't get a
flow it wasn't like he and I were just
shooting the shit having a good time
well to take that one decision so you
have decided to make video a main
component of this podcast so it's still
probably a small percentage of your
actual listens not anymore
not anymore it's it's gotten to it's
almost 50/50 awesome cuz it's closing in
on that it used to be like ninety ten
yeah yeah okay so you so I have it I
don't have a video component and so I
just put audio on YouTube but I put
absolute
no energy into YouTube I mean that may
one day change but because I don't I
don't care what's happening on YouTube
right so I never see the comments and
whenever I look it is as you say a
cesspool it's insane I mean YouTube's
it's just skews massively right
it's skews just massively male and it's
probably skews very young too so you
have it just solely just like millennial
alt-right craziness right it's like like
as I say these sentences your YouTube
page is just blowing up with hate for me
you got a bunch of you know Millennials
thumbs up their asses just whinging
right yeah yeah older people too well
yeah but I mean it's gotta be younger
than most of where well first of all I'm
not even seen most comment threads they
could possibly respond to anything I put
out there now right so I got out I don't
even look at my ad mentions for the most
part I spend maybe five minutes a day
looking at that's healthy what's coming
back to me but and you were actually
helpful in in reformat in my brain on
that on that topic but so because I
don't see any of that stuff I mean maybe
I'm getting a lot of pain for my Dorset
interview but I don't even know about it
right and so I'm not having I don't feel
like I have to course-correct in
response to anything now and and in
large measure it is a consequence of
just this decision that you know I
inadvertently made that I'm just I don't
have a video component to my podcast at
the moment and so I'm not I'm not
spectating on you know that the feedback
on YouTube well the feedback thing is
interesting because we were just talking
about this before the show that with
feedback and comments on YouTube
essentially anyone can comment and if
you don't go banning people from the
channel which we don't do it's not we
wouldn't do if someone was totally a
piece of shit but we don't so you
essentially have this open forum so it's
like almost like a message board where
people you just sort of comment and it's
unlike Twitter in that regard because
Twitter just you know you get abusive
and shitty on Twitter they just get rid
of you if you get abusive and shitty on
Instagram or on Facebook Facebook
they'll just get rid of you but if you
are on YouTube and you're in those
comments you could kind of get away with
more so I would imagine that people that
don't appreciate censorship and want to
just just fucking spew out whatever's on
their mind
would be the place that they would go
especially if it's the same product
essentially the only thing different and
this is a thing where it got confusing
with the YouTube people versus the audio
people with the audio people it's very
obvious that the cash app is a sponsor
because it's we say it this prod cast is
brought to you by the cash app whereas
in YouTube they're like ha
they're hiding the fact that the cash
apps a sponsor right we talked about it
during the podcast itself but we don't
put the ads on YouTube we there's ads
that YouTube puts on but we put the ads
on like after the show is over I'll read
the ads and we'll insert those into the
audio and that will go up to iTunes and
RSS feeds and all that stuff so the
stuff that's on YouTube it's abbreviated
in a sense that especially the live one
doesn't have anything so like this has
zero ads and then the ones that will be
posted on YouTube later it'll have
YouTube ads right so that's what this so
there's a couple of conspiracy theories
in that regard there's also apparently
an emerging conspiracy theory about that
Jack was trying to pump up Bitcoin
because they have some sort of a Bitcoin
deal have you heard this one
I read that but I get it from what I saw
it's not higher than it was at any point
it's still right around $3500 so if
there was a pump and dump scheme of some
sort than like it should be sure like
provable on the blockchain I guess I
don't know yeah I don't understand that
but is there any other component to it I
don't know I don't know I don't know
where that was coming from this yeah I
don't know what did it yet you've all he
said was that well the cash app sells
Bitcoin so we talked about Bitcoin I
think you know that you can buy and sell
Bitcoin through the cash app I should
say I think he said something about
blockchain technology rendering
everything permanent online and this
that was something different yeah but
that I think that's in regard to
comments into anything blog posts
blockchain is essentially gonna have
everything that's online forever but
there's so many fucking conspiracy
theories about all this stuff it's it's
fascinating and as you know we were
talking about earlier with your foot the
way you do yours you used to use patreon
and now you use your own website after
the sargon of akkad incident when you
nobly stepped back away from patreon now
or not so nobly whatever what you think
sargon of akkad
yeah well it's not even that it's a yeah
yeah well there's so many misconceptions
about what happened there and my you
know I tried to clear them up on my
podcast but yeah there's an interesting
implication to not taking ads and I
think what's happening and this is much
bigger than even podcasting I think I've
been sure to know what you feel about
this I mean you have you are the
quintessence of this successful ad model
in in podcasting right like this is you
it's working
fantastically well for you and for
people like Tim Ferriss and you know
probably Marc Maron I mean there's it's
there's some because it's kind of like a
winner-take-all thing happening in the
space where ads are working great and I
am a really also a highly successful
example of the the support model it's
like the PBS model the NPR model and
what's weird is that I can't like that
we you know you and I are both
surrounded by people who have podcasts
want to have podcasts and are asking us
for advice about how to succeed and how
to monetize and like I'm not even in a
place where I can recommend my model to
anyone else
right because it's it's a very you know
it's it's very hit-or-miss I mean I had
just happened to have developed an
audience that will support my work and
you had developed that audience
previously ironically enough on YouTube
there's a lot of you - well yeah just
debates random coding people putting my
content on their YouTube channels yeah
the mostly debates right yeah and as a
you know as no author but it would mean
it was just up the podcast grew and I
had this sort of forced choice where am
I gonna go the the the ad route or or
not and I found that I may have two
things to to say you know fairly
strongly against ads but what really
only one of them applies to me and I
don't think it applies to you or Tim or
anyone else
I just felt personally I couldn't use
ads because of such as what my platform
is and the kinds of topics I'm engaging
and it just didn't work I mean there was
nothing
highbrow enough where I felt like my
credibility wasn't getting subtly on
bye-bye shilling for to me be something
that I just legit loved and it could
have been the Oxford English Dictionary
you know like you guys is the best
dictionary in the world you guys should
use it I still couldn't do it and I
might ride it with the only thing I took
on as a sponsor was audible and I did
that for some weeks and then just you
know I loved audible but but it just
felt wrong and so I decided to just
experiment with a different business
model and it's working for me but it's I
don't think it can work for most people
and I've you that as a problem and a
thing that I I think is is interesting
is that there's that this is much bigger
than podcasting so you have like you
have Facebook on the one hand which is
just a a totally free platform where the
users don't even realize that they're
not the customers there at the actual
product right the users the users are
having their attention sold to
advertisers and it's this enormous
business and on the other end of the
digital spectrum you have Netflix which
is just a stark paywall right and
there's no way in but to pay the
subscription and you know that's and you
know Netflix could run ads and get more
money if they wanted to but they're you
know they're not doing that and
presumably won't do that and I'm hoping
just generally speaking that the digital
future looks much more like Netflix and
much less like Facebook and because I
see what ads has ads have done is
they've anchored
everyone to the illusion of free
everyone expects their digital content
for free except in places like Netflix
right so like if when you release a
comedy special when you really release
your next hour and you sell it to
Netflix I would imagine there are very
few people in your fan base who are
thinking well fuck Joe Rogan why didn't
he just put that out on YouTube right
why is this on Netflix they they sort of
understand that this piece of content is
belongs on that shelf and that if they
want it they have to subscribe to
Netflix whereas if you did something
slightly different but you know
functionally the same if you put it on
Vimeo and charge people five dollars or
whatever in a Vimeo on demand I think
you'd get a lot more pain right you
people would say well fuck you
you creative bastard like if you're
already doing great just release your
stuff right yeah and I've you that as a
problem it's like it's like a
psychological problem people have been
anchored to the ad subsidized model more
or less everywhere and they expect
everything for free and in my world I'm
trying to just continually Brook that
expectation and push people into a
different sense of you get what you pay
for and and the so that the hybrid model
I've created for myself is I'm putting
more stuff behind a paywall
right I mean it's so that this is it's
not just pure sponsorship of otherwise
free content but I'm very personally I'm
very uncomfortable with the idea that if
someone actually can't afford it they
can't get access to my content so I just
tell people if you really can't afford
the stuff behind my pay wall or you
really can't afford my meditation app
just send us an email and we'll give it
to you for free right so yeah I've heard
that I was like this guy's crazy
I mean it's actually it's actually in
the pricing in the App Store for my
meditation app it's like there's the
pricing and then below that there's if
you can't afford this you know here's
that here's the email address I think
that's fantastic
and so that's I'm just free yeah I'm
sweating it that way but I'm raising
prices it's like it's like because I
think everything is too cheap in the
digital space I think I think we're
anchored to I mean there are people who
will spend five dollars a day on a cup
of coffee every day for the rest of
their lives and yet if you told them
this podcast or this app that they that
they say is incredibly valuable to them
is going to cost them five dollars a
month they they feel raped right you
know so it's you know and I completely
understand it because I know what it's
like to hit up a wall and think I can't
get my credit card out again I'm not
gonna pay for this I'm gonna find this
information somewhere else so I we've
all been anchored to this thing and you
know something is gonna win in the end I
mean I you know I think at some point
you know it's gonna look much more like
Netflix or much more like Facebook and I
mean I'm throwing my lot in with the
former but you know it's it
the Wild West well the Netflix things
different because Netflix has programs
that cost a lot of money to create this
podcast was very easy you're my friend I
call ya pay you want to do a podcast you
come on over here I mean obviously we
had to pay for all this equipment but
other than that it's just and bandwidth
and rent and all that stuff other than
that just goes up right whereas you do a
comedy special across hundreds of
thousands of dollars you have to secure
a venue you have to hire staff I mean
it's a big deal yes it's that's and
that's an easy thing in terms of like
bang for their buck what Netflix will
get out of it if you do a television
show I mean my god you you you need to
hire hundreds of people
there's wardrobe and makeup and set and
there's writers and producers and
executives and everybody has to go over
the script with a fine-tooth comb it's
incredibly incredibly strenuous there's
a lot going on when you create a
television like stranger things or
something like that I mean you have so
much special effects and so to ask for
that for free seems B to me seems
ridiculous well yeah yeah but but except
the I mean so I'm kind of splitting
again I'm running on two tracks here an
app is much more like a television show
surprisingly than it is like a podcast
but yes but even if it's just a podcast
if you want to build something if you
want to build a media company like
either like like let's say you were
let's say you were asking for support
for this otherwise free podcast people
don't know what your aspirations are I
mean maybe you want to start a podcast
network right maybe you had you're
trying to build a business that is that
maybe you have massive payroll expenses
that you know so the expectation that
the product should always be free closes
the door to any of those aspirations if
in fact you have them and you know it's
like I mean it's very interesting
psychologically because so I so I have
I've created this network of support for
my podcast but I see people do
calculations that they would never do in
a more transactional space that they
were just let's say buying my next book
right so like for me offering a free
podcast and then saying if you find this
valuable you can support it right that
for you know from the side of being a
creator of that content
it feels like the the most transparent
interaction possible because a person
can listen for free for as long as they
want to just discover how valuable this
and then they can support it to the
degree that they find it valuable
whereas if I'm selling you a book you
can't even read the book before you
before you buy it or you have to make
the decision to buy it and I'm trying to
convince you to buy it because it took
me all this time to write it and and you
know you're you know it's it's it's
transactional with but with a podcast
people make calculations that they would
never make when they're just figuring
out whether they want to buy something
like like I'll and it's really a long
line to what you just described people
say well how much does a podcast cost to
produce right like if I knew what you
were spending the money on and what it
costs you to do this podcast well then I
would support you right but they're
never saying how much does it cost to
write a book and if I knew what you were
gonna spend the money on once you once
you were once once I bought this book
then I would know whether or not I
wanted to buy it you then want the book
or you don't right so the problem with
the support model and this the part the
problem with patreon and everything else
is that it engages this sort of the
philanthropy charity side of the brain
right and people are worried about what
you're gonna do and how much it all
cause like how much does its might cost
right yeah like that that's that's a
question that someone is asking when
they're donating it wasn't in donating
and the problem there is they're not
understanding you know just the
opportunity cost like I you know I have
to decide how to spend my time am I
gonna spend 90% of my time on a podcast
well that if so that closes the door to
virtually everything else I can do right
so it's you know it has to become a
viable business and so I mean I I've
recognized now that I'm you know to some
degree going against the grain of human
psychology in asking for support and now
I now I feel like I'm gonna ask much
less and I'm gonna tell people what the
business model is and and you know and
still like and remind them of it but I'm
personally I'm gonna go more and more
than in the direction of putting stuff
behind a paywall
and if people want it then they can
support and so it's it's a it's
kind of sort of Netflix the ultimate
version of it would be if it were
Netflix that would also let you get it
for free if you really couldn't afford
it right that I mean that that that's
the guilt for a business model that I'm
converging on now I like it I like how
you're thinking and I'd like the ethics
involved in it and I think it's a great
thing and when you set it on your
podcast I was shocked but it makes sense
coming from you my thought is I'm in
negotiation or in discussions right now
and I talk to you about this too about
building an app and what I want to do
with the app is have a set amount of
money that you pay per month if you want
to sign up for the app and you get the
podcast with no ads right so you could
either get it from iTunes or whatever
your Google Play or Google podcast or
you can get it from the app and if you
get it from the app you pay X amount per
month and you get the podcast with zero
ads and it'll stream live I'm gonna
figure out how to do both of those
things my thought going into advertising
when I when I first did the podcast I've
been doing the podcast now for nine
years when I first started doing it
there was no ads for the longest time it
just cost money it costs money too for
bandwidth it cost money to put it but I
was doing it for fun and I didn't care
and I revenue was coming from other
sources a few years ago I decided what I
was gonna do was because I was getting
ad well the first ad request was a
Facebook was the fleshlight rather and
you were the first person to request I
killed I did not have the fleshlight on
your pocket yeah the first podcast that
we did what can pre-madonna
Sarah Mary Wow has it made sense they
were disgusting ads too we would get
ridiculous and and be really silly and
those ads it was just the juxtaposition
I just just knowing that the mic would
go hot and then you know 15 seconds
before it would still be ringing in
their ears that you know if you want to
jack off with this fantastic device you
know here sam harris neuroscientist but
moral philosopher the fleshlight
experienced some pretty significant
positive impact from that I mean their
business went through the roof right
because of the podcast I mean they
really sold a shitload of flesh lights
where they told me like some ungodly
number like 50% of the flesh lights they
were selling was cold were drogon
that's not that I don't want to picture
too much the armies of people using
their product you know so word got
around and then as the podcast space
started expanding then advertisers
tentatively were dipping their toe in my
philosophy and it's still hold I was
aware that's like two thousand six or
seven or you know Jamie 2012 12 yeah I
wasn't the first time I was on here was
2011 well did the end of 2009 okay
doesn't end was all right you were
probably on before yeah you're probably
on around 2010 or 11 there's no other
ads other than the fleshlight with you
yeah and then the fleshlight dropped off
when we started asking for more money
they're like yeah I think we hit the
point of no return but my philosophy
getting into advertisement was I'm gonna
do whatever the fuck I want to do a
hundred percent and have no impact
whatsoever on the content of my podcast
like whatever advertisers that I choose
whatever advertisers that I make deals
with they have to understand that
there's no way I'm changing the content
of the podcast and if I lose them I lose
them I don't care and that was the
thought process going in so I never hit
a snag like this cash app Jack Dorsey
thing before where people think that the
reason why I was easy with him was
because of the fact that he sponsors the
podcast it's a very obvious conflict of
interest right but but people have to
realize that if they churn out off your
podcast you've got just an endless
number of advertisers way too many lines
yeah so I mean the cash logic component
it's like it's just one way of looking
at it that they they buy a lot of ads
they do buy a lot of ads we do have a
good relationship with them but I don't
need them if they went away I have too
many ads and that sounds gross to say
but it is a fact I have many more ads
than I have spots for ads so if they
went away would not hurt me at all
financially because I put a limit on how
many ads I do per podcast I also don't
ever interrupt a podcast with an ad I
don't do that and because I don't do
that that cost me money
but I just feel like the experience of
listening to a podcast unbroken is so
much better than listening to a podcast
we'll be right back well this word from
Casper mattresses you know it just it
feels gross but in the beginning I'm
like look you know where it is you can
fast-forward but maybe you're into this
stuff maybe you need stamps.com
maybe whatever the fuck you need those
are the ads they pay a lot of money I'm
gonna take that money and I'm gonna do
whatever the fuck I want and if these
guys decide oh you smoke pot or you're
too controversial or you talk about this
or talk about that we're gonna drop you
okay that's my philosophy in and I've
lost ads I've lost bonzers okay I don't
care but if I lost the cash app because
I was too hard on Jack Dorsey or if Jack
Dorsey comes back and I'm too hard on
him in grilling him about these people
that have been censored I hope he
doesn't but I like him it's nice yeah I
want to know what the fuck's going on
there in fact I'm having Tim Poole come
on tomorrow
Tim pools and investigative journalist
independent journalist who was used to
be with Vice and he knows a lot about
the censorship issue with YouTube or
with with Twitter rather and he knows
about YouTube as well but with who is
censored and why who is removed who's
bendy platformed why they've been deep
platform and where the inconsistencies
and you know where why why is it skewing
so heavily right where the people on the
right of the ones who are getting banned
the people on the left are getting away
with a lot of crazy shit so we're gonna
we're gonna get into the weeds with that
and if the cash app hears that and they
decide to drop me as a sponsor I don't
care yeah I really don't care this is a
major source of income for me but it's
only one source right it's one of the
things that being a stand-up comedian
working for the UFC and having a podcast
and then have a podcast with ads on
YouTube and and having ads that are on
the regular podcast itself I'm free in a
sense - I have plenty of money it's not
whether or not I'm starving or worried
about paying my bills I'm free to do
whatever I want to do well also I should
be clear like I don't think because this
can sound totally sanctimonious and it's
not intended that way I don't think my
scruples around at reading it as on my
podcast apply to you or Tim
faris or many other people I mean like
Tim is the ultimate example Tim is
somebody who's brand on some level is
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go out
there and find the best shit in the
world right you know the best shirts the
best workout equipment to us and I'm
gonna tell you about it so I want to
know what Tim has found right so Tim if
Tim is reading an ad for something you
know that is totally brand convergent
for him and I think you're very much in
a similar situation if you're talking
about on it or whatever it isn't it's
your own you own part of on it right
yeah so it's like I should also be clear
that I say no to a lot of ads that I
don't want there was one there was a
uber for babysitting I was like get the
fuck out of here what are you crazy
actually said that got recommended to me
by somebody but it sounds like sounds
like Craigslist for babysit sounds like
a disaster waiting to happen there's
been a few that I've said no to like
quite a few some of them that are just
boring I'm like I'm not reading that I'm
not selling that that's stupid but also
you're a comic who can send up ads I
mean I think bill burr does this weird
kind of trash as the ad as he's reading
it because that he lost naturebox
because he told people to go eat apples
yeah yeah he's like Oh eat a fucking
apple so it's I mean that's toad and
that's something that's a tool you have
in your wheelhouse that has effects down
the looks like it's one reason why you
can stream live without really worrying
about it and I feel I can't like so is
like me yeah at the end of the day like
if things go completely haywire in your
podcast you can say listen I'm a fucking
comic what do I know right you could
like you can just you can just pull the
ripcord yes and you're fine right right
I can't do that right like so I guy you
can't say I'm a more yes yeah so I mean
I can and there's certain circumstances
where I should but it's like I should
avoid those circumstances yeah right yes
so you know I have to prepare more for
podcasts and I feel like I personally
it's it's as much as out of concern for
my guests as well like I just you know
this is a high-wire act but I want a net
normally so that people feel free to be
totally unguarded because they know that
if we have a spaz
we can you know we can you know even
uttering spaz attack will screw some
people's careers we actually had a
conversation about a podcast that I
talked to you about one of your podcasts
we said that you actually started it
over yeah started let's try this again
let's just start from scratch yeah yeah
I mean I maybe I I think it would I
don't think it would be sporting to say
which podcast that was but yeah so I had
a podcast that went completely into the
ditch for the first half hour I mean
just brutal and and I said listen
there's a really there's a good
conversation for us to have here and now
I know how badly this can go all right
so like now I know just where the track
is I have to struggle to keep the Train
on and so we're gonna reboot we're gonna
start again and let's see what happens
and you know the podcast was was not
perfect and I got some criticism for it
but people didn't understand that we
were like you know we had a you know we
had I had seen the pit of alligators and
didn't want to fall in well it made more
sense though when you told me that
because I'm like okay it was heated
before you even got to go right because
you had already gone through a half an
hour of back-and-forth yeah yeah um I
think people need to understand what
it's like to do one of these things too
because you know you do it so often it
becomes pretty and you're so good at
talking you're such a good orator and
you're so articulate that it comes off
smooth and ease you're just having a
conversation with someone but you're
always considering the fact that people
are listening to this you're always
saying how do i how do I get more out of
him or her how do I take this in and how
do I get this person to expand upon this
how do I you know how do I make this
something make something out of this
this is one of things that I felt Jack
because he was talking in this way and
we're we're really working hard on
fixing all these issues and like oh
Jesus I gotta change my gears here and
try to figure out cuz like it's almost
like we'd have to restart again every
time a question would be answered he
would stop talking and I go okay to next
along you asked well it's almost like I
have to restart the momentum of it but
well again I'm totally I'm that kind of
a speaker so you know I that wasn't a
problem and I
know what he talked like I'd never heard
him talk ever so hearing him talk there
and in talking to him live you know I
mean some people are fucking effortless
some people like Elon took a while like
we had to start drinking no that was
brutal yeah but so like but that I mean
you know how much I tried to micromanage
that behind the scenes I was trying to
figure that out
and you know you guys basically broke
all the rules I let I have thought I
laid down and heel on did it cuz heel on
tweeted y'all be on Joe's podcast
Thursday night at 9 o'clock ok but you
know I met I didn't want you guys to go
live right I wanted I wanted you to both
have a chance to say wait a minute is
smoking a blunt really the thing we want
to be doing here so you know you didn't
take my advice and it was what it was
well we were drunk by the time the weed
came out that was what's what's
interesting to me is we were drinking
from the beginning of the podcast we
started drinking whiskey
we both had two or three glasses of
whiskey right before the weed came out
nobody cared the fact that the CEO of
Tesla was drunk right like no one cared
about that I mean wasn't drunk but he
shouldn't drive I don't know if that was
obvious I don't know if they saw that
you were drinking was obvious in the
beginner pouring the whiskey right I
mean it's on the table we had ice we're
clinking glasses salute I mean it was
very obvious yeah I mean the the problem
for me there with that podcast frankly
was that I feel like you both got
unlucky with Walsh is where he was in
his life at that moment and because so
what that podcast showcased at least for
the first I don't know 90 minutes was
just how many user interface problems
you could have with elan right like he
just showed up as kind of fairly weird
right he's not he's not always like that
by any stretch I mean he can give a very
loose interview and but you were working
I mean you it was just absolutely heroic
work trying to keep that conversation
happening you know in the beginning but
once we got loose yeah that was good but
it was still it's like you know he was
just in a space that he was so massively
stressed and so overworked and just I
mean he had you know fires everywhere
that had to be put out and
so I just thought you know as a friend I
just felt like okay this is sort of the
wrong time to be doing this and this is
it you know and and so I just felt you
know it just felt unlucky to me so
because he's again I you know I see him
in in many other moments and he can be
okay that was out there was actually a
circumstance where I was looking at the
comments right you know and and I was
saying okay these these are people who
are basically reading him as somebody
who is is much stranger than in fact he
he ever is and I could see why they were
doing that because he the guy he just
seemed in a very stressed space in his
life well it was interesting he was very
different when he first got here versus
when the mic came on right when he first
got here he pulls out the fucking
blowtorch and starts shooting this
flamethrower in the middle of the
hallway and we're laughing and I'm like
he's gonna be easy this is great right
and then we sat down and then stiff yeah
right off the bat and I'm just trying to
massage it and get them get them get
them going although I honestly I think
that is another consequence of live I'm
not arguing that you shouldn't be live
because it it has a massive advantage
for you as well but it is there's just a
different feeling yeah like you know if
I knew that this was being taped and I
could rethink the thing we're about to
say about Liam Neeson or whatever it is
yeah you know it's it's different yeah
and so but well the Liam Neeson story is
a perfect go there yeah let's go there a
perfect example of a story where you
know if you were Liam's friend you would
go don't tell that one he's like but I
want to be honest yeah like don't don't
you could be honest with me I'm not
gonna judge you if you tell me that
someone got raped and you went out with
a baseball bat for a week looking for a
black man to beat up all the kill to
kill I'd be like oh Jesus Christ man
like what the fuck was going through
your head at that point in time like
that's terrible like yeah like I feel
awful about it I can't believe that was
me but right but it didn't happen
nothing happened and now you know people
are calling him a racist and they don't
want him in movies and well I mean this
is this is fascinating to me because
again this is a much larger problem with
with massive implications we need to
think through the whole process of
redemption for this in our society right
like we we have to understand what are
the what are the criteria for successful
apologies and for forgiveness like what
like what just what because special I
mean we're in a world where people are
having their their reputations destroyed
and their careers threatened for tweets
they sent as teenagers Yeah right and
and you know more this is the Dorsey's
point things are not disappearing online
anymore in a certain point you know
everyone this is gonna be a 360 cut a
panopticon view of everyone's life you
know there are people who have grown up
on social media and everything is out
there and I mean the irony here for me
is that you have you know progress
progressives and you know people on the
far left who receive a disclosure like
you know Liam Neeson's does take his and
they just want you know they just want
to see him burned alive right let's just
do the Wicker Man on this guy because
this is you know this is so awful
and yet alongside that these same people
on the left are people who have as a as
a genuine ethical norm the
rehabilitation of murderers well you
could be somebody who spent you know 20
years in prison for a crime you admit
you committed and there's this norm
around Redemption and so there's you
know there's no way to square those two
things well they're constantly holding
these two two contradictions right I
mean here's another one women's rights
and support of the hijab I mean yeah
what yeah this is what's going on there
how do you do that you know don't be
Islamophobic but also support women's
rights and gay rights yeah okay well I
think Eric Weinstein our mutual friend
calls these the hilbert problems for
social justice warriors and they David
Hilbert was a very famous mathematician
who at the turn of the 19th century
posed a set of problems in mathematics
that you know we're just you know the
on his list of the most desirable
questions the hardest questions and the
most consequential questions to answer
and so you know Erica being a
mathematician has flipped that around
ironically and said these are these are
the questions that social justice
warriors have to answer and they're
these impossible opposition's of this
sort but so the liam neeson thing and
you know forgive me if i if there's some
detail that has come out that i'm not
aware of but my understanding of it is
he you know he had a friend who was
raped and then he reported this state of
mind this murderous state of mind he was
in where he was walking around with the
he calls it Akash i'ma that's the
British word for like a it's like a
small metal club right it's like a
blackjack or like the another term for I
think and looking for a black guy to
kill you know like doesn't hoping
someone's gonna come out of the woodwork
and threaten him so that he could you
know kill this guy in this act of
instrumental violence because his friend
had been raped by a black guy right just
like any black guy will do now that's
that's sort of like the the extra
horrific wrinkle to the story right now
and he's confessing this as a kind of a
symptom of transient mental illness at
least as far as I know it's like he's
horrified by the fact that he was in
this state of mind right can you imagine
like I know Liam Neeson an actor I have
everything to lose and although I don't
remember what at what point in his life
he said this happened can you imagine
that I was in the state of mind right
and this is as you say it an all too
honest disclosure but it is damn
interesting right and it is the kind of
thing that we should be able to talk
about right and it's not and the fact
that this big is becoming synonymous
with racism seems just wrong given given
how he's did he described her at least
how I've I've heard this because he's
saying listen if this had been an
Armenian guy or an Italian or a Japanese
guy I'd be looking for one of them right
I mean what what what this was at least
on his telling is the the virus of
instrumental violence I mean the virus
of
like this is how every blood feud ever
in human history gets start is like you
like someone from your tribe killed my
brother and now what I want to do is
kill anyone from your tribe right
doesn't matter who you and and that's
you know clearly as toxic as it gets you
know ethically but that's not racism
right that's just that is that we have a
word for it it's in its instrumental
violence but you know yeah obviously
he's getting totally pilloried over this
but we need we just need to figure out
how to talk about how people can redeem
themselves once something this unsavory
is is revealed about their past whether
they reveal it or whether it's just you
know have found out about them yeah I
mean it is racism though right because
he's specifically looking for a black
guy I mean that it's a part of the other
tribe no but it doesn't suggest that he
has us that he disposed and he feels one
way or another about black people it's
like if you told me yeah I mean he could
he could have said again it could have
been an Irish guy right or it could have
been me well I guess he's Irish is he's
a Scottish or Irish it could have been
an English guy right it could have been
it like any type right it's like is the
the the salience of the tribe is what he
was reacting to you know at least in his
description I don't know why you
wouldn't take him at his word given that
he didn't have to say any of this in the
first place right I mean like this is a
an amazingly honest and unnecessary
disclosure but it's um and I don't think
people would think of it as racism if he
if the story simply was you know she got
raped by a cop and I was just hoping to
go kill a cop right right you know it's
the same story right and so yeah but
we're so trigger-happy
in our outrage with respect to anything
like why do you think that is like what
what is going on because outrage seems
to be more in season than it's ever been
in my lifetime I don't I don't remember
outrage being so
just such a it's it's it's recreational
yeah there's there's a it's back to Jack
I mean yeah a lot it has a lot to do
with social media and Twitter in
particular yeah I mean you have like so
for instance I missed the whole
Covington high school Catholic fiasco
not on Twitter basically was ignoring
Twitter I saw I saw it out of the corner
of my eye like man this is interesting
this is this is blowing up but I I was
so off Twitter that I had there was no
temptation for a hot take for me right
and I saw these people just torching
their reputations by taking these like
like Kathy Griffin basically calling for
the daxing of these kids you know given
all that she has suffered you know from
from mob behavior online and she's you
know whipping up her own mob it was just
nuts but it's normal that some people do
it's what the platform is calling out of
people but it's also when people have
been shamed and they've done something
awful
then they reinforce their base like that
now she's like is so heavily hard left
because the right-wing ran after her
like anyone on the right that does
anything she's calling for her side to
go after this person like reinforcing
that she's a part of that tribe that
she's a part of that left-wing tribe
yeah yeah well it's so obviously
everyone has a lot to lose doing this
especially in a case where all the facts
aren't in and if you just wait at a beat
I'm even though New York Times got this
wrong the New York Times writes an
article about the kids in the manga hat
that that they have to rescind and the
so then as the dust is settling and I
see these people some people are
doubling down some people are issuing
public apologies I see somebody who's
actually kind of you know branded
herself as you know one of my enemies
for a reason I can't fathom but this
journalist Kara Swisher who you know she
works for recode and and and Vox now but
she's got a big podcast and she's a bit
she actually writes for The New York
Times now she's got an opinion piece you
know a regular column for the New York
Times
she's a tech journalist and I you know
happened to know she doesn't like me
because she's tweeted against you know
she's
some disparaging things about me on
Twitter and we had a you know an offline
conversation about it but I saw her she
said one of the most vituperative and
you know fairly crazy things in response
to the kids initially and then once more
information came out she walked it back
and she basically apologized you know
good for her Twitter and so I said good
for you Kara I just wanted to support
this norm of acknowledging that you got
something wrong and I wanted to do it
even I wanted to actually do it for
someone who I know really doesn't like
me like I mean that was an added bonus
for me because that that's and that's
another norm that that I think we should
support it's like like we should we
should play fair even with our enemies
yes and yeah I mean honestly I you know
I try to play fair even with people who
never play fair with me even someone
like Glenn Greenwald or raise Aslan I
mean people who have just you know lied
about me endlessly if I get something
wrong about them I publicly apologize
for it so I did this and so this was at
the the absolute 11th hour with respect
to this this you know scandal online and
when I saw the kind of pain I was
getting just for a consortium Kara in
her walk back of this thing way at a
moment when it was obvious she should
have walked this back I got people
saying you know unsubscribing from your
podcast you are you know now I know
you're a fucking racist you know it was
just just pure pain and I just thought
wow man that's you know it's like you
just touch this thing at its very end
and you're you know it's that the slime
gets on you so yeah it is it's the
medium you know it is we has no
opportunity to do this before it is the
medium and it's also people that don't
feel like their opinions are being heard
like they want their opinion to be heard
they want it to be heard right now and
it might not be a very well thought-out
opinion but they know that they have the
ability to blare it out and say yeah
they just send it out and that that did
the ability to do that is just
intoxicating for folks reach you you
talked about this with Jack there is a
there what makes Twitter especially good
for this is that everything has the same
stature yeah your tweets no bigger than
the other tweet that just called you an
asshole yeah
that's my kurt metzger take on it
because Kurt massacre was a hilarious
stand-up comedian he he'll write a
Facebook blog only he only writes on
Facebook I was like I like how it's set
up
he's like it's there's a big it
differentiates between me and these
fucking idiots who are commenting under
there although ironically I hate
Facebook I can't even I mean is just the
graphic design on Facebook I find so
offensive that I just can't look at
Facebook so I use it as a publishing
channel but I'm you know I keep
threatening in my own mind to just
delete the account because I just don't
I mean I've only read the comments three
times maybe ever yeah I know a time I
read him it's like Jesus Christ it's
like YouTube but alive I know it's like
YouTube but with people with their real
names it's you know this is a new world
that we're living in man and everybody's
trying to navigate this thing and figure
it out as it goes along and not
everybody's doing it well and I think
this world is going to get more and more
intrusive I think this is just the
beginning I think we didn't see Twitter
coming and whatever comes after Twitter
and this is one of the things that I
before the podcast I wanted to really
talk to Jack about to get his take on
what he thinks is next down the line
because there's gonna be something
that's more invasive there's gonna be
something that is more whether it's I
think probably something in the line of
augmented reality there were probably a
decade away from something that makes
this look like books look like you know
a fucking corkboard at a bookstore ya
know
although strangely we're live we're
living to the golden age of audio here
it's like we went to full into video and
we're poised to go like you know 3d and
and you know VR and then all of a sudden
Audio is king well how about phone calls
and texts like I mean I called you out
of the blue once and it was like
supermarket
somebody said on Twitter once it was
hilarious that facetiming facetiming me
out of nowhere is just like knocking on
my door
you're right without calling me straight
up right she was angry that so many
facetimed her no it always feels like an
old school move to unless like my book
agent calls me you know out of the blue
and it's just it seems
yeah it is just like a knock on the door
my friend Joey Diaz only calls ya
only cut for years he would scream at
you if you text and then recently within
the last 2 or 3 years he started texting
occasionally he only calls well I got so
I got to tell you so having released
this meditation app has given me a kind
of a sanity check on everything else I'm
doing which is it's very interesting
because in releasing the app you know
it's like it's firewalled from all the
other controversial stuff I'm doing I'm
like I'm not you know in the app I'm not
whinging about Trump or you know talking
about any of the stuff I talk about on
my podcast it's just me trying to teach
meditation as a largely as an antidote
to all of the stuff we're talking about
it's like every what got this as Tristan
Harris says we've got this slot machine
in our pocket that it's continually
gaming our attention all day long and
you know in my view a meditation app is
like the one thing you can have on your
smartphone that completely subverts the
technology and you can get you to
actually live a more examined life using
the technology right but what's been
amazing for me personally is that I put
it out and it is the only thing that I
have put out maybe ever right where it
is it's been received exactly as I've
intended right there's no controversy
it's just like like the people who are
finding it useful love it and they say
thank you and it's like they're getting
exactly what I thought I was putting
into it and it's like it made me think
what the hell am i doing over here with
all of this hot sex stuff that has been
and endlessly maliciously spun against
me and misunderstood and you know it's
just a mess I have to I have to do both
because there's a lot of important
things to talk about that are gonna be
analyst lis spun and and maliciously and
misunderstood but it is it's been so
refreshing to have one thing I mean me
you must get this with with you know
doing your stand-up or something or
maybe - I don't have a thing I get shit
for everything or maybe maybe UFC
commentary no come afternoon have for
everything well it's just it has been a
psychologically it's been a revelation
to have one thing
that I can put out that is just it's
just received appreciated and they got
what I intended and it's just you know
thank you it's just like oh fuck that's
possible I have no I had if I ever knew
I have forgotten that that that was
possible
well meditation now it kind of makes
sense because the people are gonna flock
to that are looking to meditate they're
looking to have their mind they're not
looking a spew hatred on Facebook no
yeah yeah yeah I thought that after the
podcast with Jack I was like Jesus
Christ let's just stick to podcasts or
comics because podcast with comics if
you know you put your foot in your mouth
everybody knows you're just trying to be
funny right you know if you do a podcast
and and the thing about the podcast with
Jack it's nothing like I said anything
bad it's what I didn't say yeah that was
upsetting to so many people but that's
such a loaded thing and because of that
podcast now there's there's negative to
it that blow back there's a lot of you
know toxic anger and all that but the
positive is what I like the positive
that came out of it is me forced to
re-examine how I do podcasts re-examine
the significance of each individual
guest and especially someone that comes
with as much baggage you know with that
without lack of a better term as Jack
that you're you know you got to think
that there's people listening and
there's some questions that you really
have to work at you have to you have to
push through and even if he's he's
dancing and pure wedding I should have
went back to okay wise Kathy Griffin on
your platform yeah like if doc sings bad
you want you don't want Docs
you don't want threats of violence when
someone says I want names okay what are
you gonna do with these fucking names
right what are gonna do with them what
do you do with the sixteen-year-old kid
in his name's and then when you see the
actual the actual video of what actually
happened and there's so many people that
are still not walking it back still no
I'm doubling down a lot of people double
down fuck him
and here's another little piece of
insight my friend Matt lived in DC and
those hats those maggots they're fucking
everywhere there's these little where
these kids were that area there's these
carts that sell these hats so these kids
bought those hats that day it's not like
they're these Mag of kids they'd
probably just be in assholes right there
teenage boys their frontal lobe is not
fully formed and they're all together
feeding off each other like a pack of
gremlins yeah I was a teenage boy you
were a teenage boy you know how fucking
stupid used to be yeah I mean I was
probably way more stupid than you but I
was a mess I had my moments yeah no I'd
be just you get a hundred teenage boys
together in a crowd you know on a school
trip and you get some native elder
drumming in one of their some guy's face
yeah you know it was amazing what didn't
happen
right there exactly no violence nobody
you know the way he handled it all he
did a smile yeah so I mean listen I'm as
biased as anyone against a Catholic
school kid wearing a manga hat yeah it's
like you know like given given my
backstory it's like yeah I'm totally
poised to think this guy's an asshole
and it's likely always to be an asshole
but what people read into an
uncomfortable smile right I mean just
like the the the shots of his face with
the tweets that said you know this is
what white privilege looks like this is
you know this is this is the everything
that's wrong in our society it's just we
have to slow down how about razor wrote
have you ever seen a more honorable yeah
come on man you want to punch him yeah
cuz he's smiling Cartman Rosa calls for
violence from the left are so fucking
disturbing to me because my parents were
hippies when I grew up I always thought
of the left and we all we you know I've
been called right when I've never voted
anything but democratic in my life
except for Gary Johnson Gary Johnson was
only time I voted independent or
whatever the fuck he was libertarian
right that was just cuz he did my
podcast vol foot Tulsi Gabbard because
she did my podcast but the the the the
left was always very considerate
well-read they were there were the
people that were more open-minded they
were supporting of gay people and
minorities that was the left and they
were nonviolent they were the people
that are protesting Vietnam when I was a
kid well Sarge is supportive of the
virtue of speech of free speech and
self-criticism yes right like I mean
that's the the the disadvantage of the
left against the right has always been
there's this self scrutiny
and willingness to wonder whether or not
I'm wrong that isn't mirrored if you go
far enough right and it has there has
been so there's been kind of an
asymmetric war between left and right
you know politically from for much of
our lifetime but you go far enough left
now and you're you're meeting a kind of
totalitarian resistance to speech
yeah and it's yeah it's very I mean I'm
just it'll be interesting to see how
that the 2020 campaign plays out well
I'm certainly worried that we could
totally blow it with some leftist social
you yeah uprising well yeah that would
be unfortunate because I think they
would just double down the other side we
would be better off with some sort of a
reasonable centrist right someone has
made sense and you know one of the
things that I liked about Tulsi is that
she's a veteran and you know I mean like
she's she seems very reasonable to me
but except but I haven't followed her
career closely but it just seems like
she's not making the right noises on
things like Syria and Assad yeah I don't
know enough about that comment yeah I
don't know enough about Assad and the
controversy or whether or not he gassed
is well that yeah that is I think I'm
controversial in terms of what she I
mean that is I'm controversial which in
terms of what she is saying about it
about him I mean she's capable of
putting both feet in her her mouth on
that I thought she's what she's saying
he's not an enemy of America right so
yeah I mean again I'm not close enough
to it and but I would you know be very
circumspect about endorsing her going
forward and into it do a little homework
because I think her candidacy is not
going to age well that's what I like who
makes sense to you Elizabeth Warren's
fuck now is the most recent one yeah
she's got the most recent one before she
filled out an application she wrote
Native American on it just having done
the DNA test yeah playing that game with
Trump that was such a miscalculation
well the fact that she released the data
and the data is so clear well it's
almost like she had to because otherwise
he would call her Pocahontas to the end
of time but that but then to then have
to apologize to Native Americans for
having done the tab it's just well
because the the Mount
of Native American is so low I've been
joking around about it that I am like a
hundred times more African Ron she is
Native America yeah
I'm 1.6 percent African and she's less
than like wait less than 1% Native
American right but this these are this
is the sort of masochistic death spiral
that people on the Left can get into
it's like you're like the left and I've
always said that the left eats its own
in a way that the right never does it's
just it's um we have to find someone who
can stand outside that the circular
firing squad right and it would be
someone who's you know it would be in my
view it would be somebody like a a
younger bloomberg right I'm I don't
think I don't think it's Bloomberg but
like somebody it's like a legit
businessman who could call bullshit on
all of trumps fake business acumen and
who's not ethically compromised right
but who can who can get stuff done and
so right and and it's definitely not
someone who feels the need to pander to
the far left on these identity politics
issues I think identity politics is
really gonna be bad for us against Trump
because so much of the country the
crucial sliver of the country me just
have to ask yourself who was it who
voted for Obama and then two or twice
and then voted for Trump right those
people aren't racist right those people
are sick of being called racist right
yeah and and the so what's happening on
the Left around identity politics and
all of these I mean it's not that racism
isn't a problem it's not that
transgender issues don't have to be
worked out I mean like all like all of
those are legit concerns but the fact
that that's the center-of-mass
politically on the left in in a in a
nationwide election against someone like
Trump I just think that's a absolute
recipe for disaster
because the people that subscribe to
that ideology don't realize how many
people think it's silly yeah you know
when you're in the oppression Olympics
and you're trying to win the gold and
for and for how many people it's
actually miss applied right it's like
there there are many more explanations
for voting for Trump
in addition to racism business yeah like
yes every racist voted for Trump
you know virtually so that's fine every
white supremacist voted for Trump but
that's not the story about why Trump got
elected and it's a long story it's just
much more I mean they're people who just
have not what do users are not thriving
in the current economy you know it's
like we got automation displacing
manufacturing jobs you got the
consequences of Trade and immigration
and you have legitimate concerns about
your village there are legitimate
concerns about immigration that have
nothing to do with racism and so if
you're gonna score any hesitation over
something like open borders as a sign of
your xenophobia and racism
you're gonna lose virtually everyone who
has a same concern about how to how you
you know keep people in how you how you
admit the right people into a country
right I mean there's their economic
concerns and there are social concerns
and yeah I mean and you don't have to be
ben shapiro
to share some of those concerns right
and I must say invention pairs racist
obvious I'm saying he's a conservative
and you know takes a more conservative
line on on many of these questions than
I do but you know it's like you either
you either think but just take
immigration as the narrow case you
either think you should be able to know
who's coming into the country or you
don't right now if you if you think you
should just have open borders there are
two problems with that one is there are
many good arguments against that and two
I don't know what the percentage is but
it's got to be something like 95 percent
of Americans would be terrified at that
prospect right so if you're if any of
your platform is essentially saying a
concern about immigration is synonymous
with racism you know you have a platform
that it's gonna alienate most people and
that's the the Democrats are totally
capable of seeming like that whether in
fact that's that's true for most
Democrats what do you think is what's
the primary factor
like what what caused identity politics
to reach this boiling point that it's at
right now well it is I think in large
measure what the internet is doing to us
it's not that identity politics hasn't
been a feature of politics for forever
but there is a there's the silo in
effect there's the the effect that
groups become more radicalized the as
groups because the most extreme voices
tend to pipe up more and then and and
everyone everyone who's who's silent I
mean it's kind of a diffusion of
responsibility around around countering
these extreme voices I get you know
every you can it only takes a small
percentage of extreme voices to cow the
rest of a group and and make the group
seem like the extreme voices are
speaking for the group right you know
and I so I think what we have on both
the left and the right we have a small
percentage I mean you know the last poll
I saw that trying to gather this
question was something like you know six
or eight percent on the tails that are
making it seem like these are and I
think it's I think it's more of a
problem on the left and on the right
because I mean the extreme right stick
is fringe and looks fringe right like
the guy with the guys in Charlottesville
in the Charlottesville with our tiki
torches they don't look like they
represent the Republican Party or that
or the the the right the Conservatives
in any general sense they're a symptom
of some problem but it's a smaller
problem it's a minority problem whereas
on the Left the extreme voices are have
massive sway in you know major companies
in tech companies in journalism in
academia like like the silencing effect
and the reputational cost that's being
paid by even very powerful people in all
these mainstream forums on the left is
is just that's not mirrored on the right
you know and it's I mean so I I don't
know if I told you this certainly didn't
say it on a previous podcast with you
but so I was at dinner with a bunch of
Silicon Valley
we were talking about III I was it was
at the moment when that that Netflix
story happened where the what Jonathan
friedlin got fired over using the n-word
in a closed-door meeting and and you
know it was it was a using the n-word in
response to my friend Tom Segura who you
know yeah right exactly okay special
yeah he said you can't say retarded
anymore and then explained like that you
know there's words you can't use anymore
right didn't even wasn't using it in a
joke like calling someone retarded or
saying something's retarded but they
were and he was saying that that's like
using the N light around by yeah yeah
but he used the n-word in this meeting
right it's like using the n-word
and that just the the mirror intonation
of those syllables yes was so shocking
right that he wound up getting fired
right and and again he was he was using
it in the context of expressing just how
careful Netflix has to be about speech I
mean he was going social justice warrior
on himself among social justice warriors
and he said this is how worried we have
to be and then he gave the magic
incantation you can still say retarded
which is amazing because it's deafening
in his defense you kind of have to say
both words you're not saying the R word
right like using the R word is like
using the N word around black people
we're getting to some weird fucking yeah
weird place with this actually no now I
realize why I'm confused about why I
think I've talked about this because I
did a podcast with Chelsea Handler which
hasn't aired I mean did a months ago
because she was doing a documentary on
white privilege I think and III think
I'm actually cast as the guy with white
privilege and this honor boy yeah that's
gonna be fun you have white privilege
yeah so um but I recorded a podcast with
her so anyway so we hit this this point
because this had just come out then and
I think her documentary is probably for
Netflix so what was her take on it well
she was she was basically I mean she was
playing the other side of the net for
this you know and you know not I mean
we'll have to see I mean I think I at
least in my own mind I certainly made
sense there and and she shouldn't have a
lot of response to what I was saying
I haven't heard the audio or seeing the
video but the so anyway I was at a
dinner with a bunch of tech CEOs talking
about this problem and one guy who who I
won't name who runs a big company that I
which I won't name said listen you have
no idea how deep this goes like I have
an HR complaint where there's a guy who
identifies as a furry right he thinks
he's a cat and because we don't provide
litter boxes in the bathroom right he's
he's launched an HR complaint right this
is real this is this was told as a real
story in in as a counterpoint or in in
amplification of the story we were
talking about in efflux right so it's
like this is and yet this has happening
like this is people are having to
navigate the CEOs of multi-billion
dollar companies or having to navigate
around this stuff in-house right and I
mean the Google thing over James to more
right I mean that was that was an
enormous problem in Google right like
that was the wheels were coming off as
far as I can tell you know from what
I've heard what in how so just that like
there was a there was gonna be a Google
mutiny over James tomb or if he were
away he has to be fired yeah yeah this
was this was a big deal at Google that's
own and what he and what he wrote was
essentially like a you know a B+ term
paper and human biology right and it was
like inmate you can you can with
expenses you can push back on some of
the science say or but like this was not
a malicious distortion of the the state
of the science right and and this was
not calling for discrimination against
women this was just saying listen men
and women are different and they've got
different interests right and this could
account for why there's an unequal
representation at the level of sino
software software development and so
what like we're on the Left we're
finding it very difficult to even talk
about differences between men and women
right that there's you know you need
start with you know start with a you
you know count from there right that is
already a taboo conversation to have and
then you know as we said at the
beginning in talking about Twitter that
one writer again I think her name is
Megan Murphy
she got booted for saying men are not
women yeah I mean that's so so again so
politically I'm very worried that unless
we resolve that or just cut through it
we don't stand a chance against Trump in
2020 I was reading a story about a woman
who's on some sort of an LBGT panel and
she's a part of some group and she was
kicked out of it by a man who identifies
as a lesbian and he has penis right
right
yeah with Monica Lee so and this is a
point that think he has a penis he'll
want to be sure it definitely identifies
as a lesbian I might have read a Twitter
comment about how preposterous that was
and said the penis part well this is
something Andrew Sullivan wrote in a
recent article on this is that the the
transgender thing is at odds with gay
rights yes in a fundamental sense I mean
you can't balance these equations
because it's like - gay identity
absolutely focuses on the legitimate
differences between men and women it's
like I'm a man I like men I don't like
women that's my situation but once you
once you change the your your notion of
what you know how gender relates to sex
it begins to erode this this claim on
the legitimacy of a gay identity right
the thing is that they're all
marginalized so they stick together
that's the idea I guess behind it it
sort of but there's I only imagine what
you know Andrew Sullivan's Twitter feed
looks like now because he only he writes
these articles I'm sure he's just gets
eviscerated by the left you know and
he's just you know straight up talking
about you know this is what gay rights
looks like and this is this is how you
can't be a man with a penis whose
identifies as a lesbian right
yeah but you can't say that right and
you also can't say that a man with the
penis is not a woman because if a man
like a penis I can say it because I
can't be fired but but if you do say it
you will get a certain amount of hate I
mean there's people that are saying that
men who will not date trans women who
still have penises right they're
transphobic and this is I mean there's
you have you ever have you ever met
Jamie kill Steen so Jamie and I have a
checkered history an awfully maybe you
and I have spoken about this I've never
met Jamie but Jamie when Jamie was
social justice warrior number one he
went hard he went hard on me yeah yeah
like he he just he just was dunking on
me endlessly in ways that were totally
unfair I mean he was just you know he
was he was working very hard to become
an enemy and then he had his his
epiphany then the social justice mob
came for him over something over almost
nothing right over him trying to get
laid I mean like they were saying he was
a creep or something like that
try hitting on girls yeah well I missed
the details there but then he can't then
so then he since sent me very friendly
and apologetic emails about just you
know I'm sorry what I did and and you
know he want he wants to do a podcast I
haven't taken him up on it but you know
that that maybe that could be an
interesting conversation searly
apologetic yeah he's a good guy I mean
he and I had our own issue at one point
in time over a podcast that we did
versus it was you remember when the
Daniel Tosh rape controversy like do you
remember this I know who Tom no joke I
should say rape joke some woman in a
crowd he was he was on stage and he
wasn't supposed to be there it was at
the Laugh Factory and DA Mara put him on
stage and he goes look I don't have any
material what do you guys want to talk
about and some guy yells out rape and
that's always helpful and so you know
it's like some drunk in a crowd right he
goes Jesus Christ and so Daniel Tosh's
take on he's out
okay what what's funny about that
humiliation violence you know he's like
berating this guy in trying to do
stand-up while he's doing this and some
woman yells out actually there's nothing
funny about rape and he goes wouldn't be
funny if someone just raped her right
and everybody starts laughing I do
remember and so this woman wrote a giant
blog about it and she wanted him to
apologize about it and Jamie went after
Daniel Tosh as a kind of fellow yes as a
fellow comics saying that it's you know
like and I was like well she's a heckler
the woman heckled like while he's trying
to do do stand-up and he's like I'm not
gonna support rape culture and he's like
how the fuck is that rape culture like
he's he's clearly making a joke about
something she said that was very very
patronizing like obviously he doesn't
think there's something funny about rape
this is he's just trying to work through
this adlib set that he's doing with some
guy who yelled out something that this
whole crowd has to respond to he can't
just ignore the fact that it happened
and go how about fire trucks folks why
they always read no he can't do that
he's got he's got to deal with what this
guy said and so that's what he tosses
out there and everybody laughed by the
way also it's in the part of his persona
persona just a villain he takes it to
the edge yeah he's edgy comedian he's
funny and you know and Jamie and I had
this little tit-for-tat about it but
he's very honest about his mistakes like
when you talk to him and he's he's got
great insight because he was that guy
you know he was that guy that was going
back and forth with people online all
day and checking his mentions I couldn't
walk down the street more than five
steps before he pull out his phone and
check his mentions you know how people
responding to his late as Duncan or
takedown or you know it's just it's a
toxic thing that people are doing it's
that's this you know looking for people
that are that are bad I'm looking for
things that are wrong looking for wrong
speak it's very toxic it's toxic for the
people that are doing it it's toxic for
the people that are receiving it it's
just it's not a way that human beings
would ever communicate in one-on-one I
mean I tried to communicate with people
the same way online as I would if
they're right in front of me and don't
understand
but I try that's my
my goal is to try to talk to someone as
if they were right in front of me that's
clearly not how everybody's hand no no I
think road rage is the is the best in us
what's happening yeah I've adopted that
I've adopted that way of looking at it
too and but the only difference is a
road rage you know there's a like a
physiological reason for road rage
because you're you're you're in a
dangerous situation
you're subliminally taking stuff going
fast right you're gonna a metal machine
with a bunch of assholes that are
probably looking at their phone and
everybody's going fast and you could die
at any moment if someone goes wrong if
you're on a highway like the 405 and you
have five lanes going 70 miles an hour
it is a fucking miracle that no one dies
yeah and every day we do it every day
everything's fine yeah well so oh let's
go back to this idea of what the the
actual normative response would be when
somebody puts their foot in their mouth
or something from their past gets
disclosed I mean the the the stupid and
indefensible thing they did is a
teenager right yeah you know and you
know like this you know you got these
guys who are now having their careers
destroyed for having dressed up you know
in blackface or Enoch in a hood for
Halloween or whatever it was I mean I
you know I don't I think I think this
that one politician said he's not even
in the in the photo but the photo was on
his yearbook page or like whatever you
put on your yearbook page in high school
right you find out this thing that you
know adult is going to defend right but
what is the path back what like what is
the reboot that what should be
acceptable because we don't even know it
seems we don't even know what could
conceivably work to rehabilitate
somebody's career and yet on this other
side we've got people who again are
being let out of prison for murders they
admit they committed right or rapes they
admit admit they committed and they're
rehabilitated and we and these are these
are stories we're supposed to feel good
about right so that we have to figure
out how to square this on the left and
you know I don't know I made the the way
I've been
thinking about it is that it has to be
intelligible how you are different from
the person who committed that thing
right so like if you if you did
something that was let's say legit
racist when you were 20 and was like
mark mark walberg is an example right I
mean he was running around just beating
people senseless right and for avowed
racist motives I believe when he was a
teenager well a guy lost his eye right
yeah basically yeah so but and I think
that was a I think I was a Vietnamese
guy he attacked or but I mean he was
just doing truly indefensible things now
I don't know what sort of you know PR
moment he has had since or how he's
apologized for it or but I mean that was
a that's a very different time I think
if it was if all that stuff was being
discovered about him now there may be no
way back to well maybe the problem is
with this day and age it could be
reignited right like even though he's
apologized for it and even though that
it's been addressed it absolutely yet
reignite him it's just me talking about
on your podcast it's fucking him over
right good yeah I mean and also people
have to recognize that there's some
things but you can't retroactively ly
instill today's ideas of what
constitutes racism on 1985 so if you
were in high school in 1985 and you
dressed up as mr. t right that you know
I don't know if that was racist back
then I never did it but I don't know if
that's racist like if you had a bunch of
gold chains and you made your hair black
and or you made your face black and gave
yourself a mohawk he said I'm mr. t for
Halloween right and the pictures emerge
today what you did when you went
door-to-door when you were 15 or 12 or
whatever you were knocking on people's
doors and everybody's laughing oh you're
mr. t nobody thought it was racist yeah
but let's take let's take the hard case
let's say you were racist right I mean
so I've had this guy is Christian
patchouli knee on my podcast once who's
a you know X neo-nazi just legit racist
right he's got all the tattoos to prove
it and now there are major problems with
Christian pitch Alenia as I think you
know that I has discovered after that
podcast but so this is not an
endorsement of him sorry Christian
but the
the there's a path back I mean so like
he's celebrated on the left yeah he's a
former neo-nazi and he's you know I
discovered him on Sarah Silverman's show
on wherever that is Hulu and you know
he's darling of the left right and
darling of MSNBC for this redemption
story so but what is the you take
someone like any of these politicians
who have something in their backstory
that is ugly
my feeling is all there has to be is a
transparent and intelligible account of
how you are now different of how you can
actually honestly look back on this
thing and say yeah I am as embarrassed
by that as you think I should be right
yeah that's not like that is nothing
that that does not represent how I view
the world at all now but there's just
there's a the spirit of the time on
social media again especially on the
left and to our you know total
dysfunction politically is to never
accept any of that I mean there's there
is no apology good enough right and or
the or there's you know the most cynical
possible interpretation of your of your
apology it's like you're just trying to
you're the only reason why you're
apologizing it's because you want to
save your job yes and that you know we
have to figure out how to I mean we just
need some you know recovery discs that
we can reboot from here because it's
just not this is going someplace
terrible and again to look at it through
the lens narrowly politically of you
know over the next two years it's it's
to the massive disadvantage of the left
it certainly is but I don't see any way
to fix that like with the current
climate and its current attitude where
people are engaging in this recreational
outrage
it fits the climate I don't mean I don't
know what would have to happen for
people to come to some sort of a
realization I mean it would have to
happen to them like it did to James like
what happened with Jamie Kelsey is it
they turned on him and he's like oh my
god this is
awful yeah like I'm what's that's not
and then he realized you know I mean I
don't know what other thing could happen
well I mean what weird the game we're
playing is part of it I mean you and I
are in a position to take risks that you
know even the people at the top of
journalism you can't I mean like like
megan kelly says one wrong thing and you
know it doesn't matter that she's got a
twenty million dollar con contract he's
just she's fired and when you look at
the thing that she said I mean it was
just a question yeah she just didn't
seem to understand how charged the
phrase blackface was right she's just
ignorant of that piece of history or
something but like you know so she just
she did she put her foot in her mouth
she gave an apology that was just like
you know full-blown hostage video
apology it's like you know just like I
am so fucking sorry you don't even know
like here take a sample of my blood and
you'll just see Mike you know yes my
cortisol and not good enough not good
enough and they letter say the apology
totally is even more crazy they let her
come back say the apology and then go
good thanks for doing that so but so she
no one's job in that space is secure
enough where they can take real risks
but you know you and I you know you and
I could do an interview with Louie CK
right like and just process his coming
back into stand up yes and do it in a
way where if people didn't like it you
just say okay fuck off right this is the
conversation we had and I think modeling
that more and more I mean I think I
think we have to take those risks and
people like us have to take those risks
and hope to break this spell by having
those conversations in public I would
hope that we're having some kind of an
impact on it but I feel like we're you
know we're throwing buckets of cold
water into a volcano I just I just don't
you know I don't know if it's enough I
just but we have pretty big buckets I
mean you have an enormous bucket I mean
you're you're reaching more people than
the biggest television shows are
reaching people aren't aware of this but
it's just a fact so it's it's so I think
that's part of it and then
changing the norm somehow of how we
engage on social media I think is
there's another piece yeah I agree I
agree with you the norm on how we engage
in social media I think is flavored by
two things one the immediacy of it the
fact that there's no person in front of
you you don't experience their their
anger or their fear or their sadness
when you say something fucked up but
also anonymity and I think anonymity is
good in a lot of ways like for
whistleblowers people that work in a
certain environment where they want to
be honest but they would get fired you
know with a very restricted environment
but they have maybe a controversial
opinion they want to hex they want to be
able to express free speech and they
can't they can't unless they do
something anonymous and even sometimes
people when they do things anonymous
they get caught and they get in trouble
like I remember there was a guy on 4chan
who was you know who would say bunch of
fucked up things like a lot of people do
and people tracked him down and found
out who he was and then sent all of
these anonymously authored posts to his
employer and he got fired and this guy
was a father and he had children and he
was you know supporting his family and
now he's struggling to make a living
he's got to try to figure because he
wrote some things anonymously online on
a message board and he found recreation
saying fucked up things you know I don't
you know I don't know what the solution
is but I feel like anonymity it
encourages less hospitable behavior did
you hear about the professor at a
academic conference get into an elevator
and making a just a dad joke of as he
gets it gets into a crowded elevator in
an academic conference and you know
someone asked what floor and he says
women's lingerie please it's like it's
like a Dean Martin joke or whatever
right someone in the elevator was so
offended by that that they lodged a
complaint and I've it's been now you
know at least a month or so since I
heard the story so I don't know if he
was fired but I like he was fighting for
his academic life Oh over this complaint
process Dean Martin okay
I mean just like that that in the
fullness of time that is going to seem
like some insane witch panic right like
there's no such thing as witches and yet
people are getting burned alive because
of allegations witchcraft we're in that
kind of situation and we we just have to
wake up yeah and and so I well you and I
don't teach and we're not in in a
university and we're not in that bubble
I think the people that are in that
bubble then they escape that bubble then
go to whatever tech company or whatever
business they continue that same bubble
like behavior and they want everybody to
act we ask they want everybody around
them to behave the way that they've been
programmed to think that everybody is
supposed to behave and you see that now
from a lot of young people you see a lot
of young people who are entering into
the workforce think that the standards
and the norms that they got enforced
upon them at Yale or Columbia wherever
they went to school like that this is
how you're supposed to behave social
justice is important and this is real
and you have to recognize your privilege
you have to check your priveledge and
you have to do this and you have to do
that you have to support trans rights
you have to call out culture
call out culture is a big one that's a
big part of it cancel culture you know
everybody wants everybody to lose their
job you want mean this is the way that
things change the way things change is
you have to reinforce the fact that
there's these new standards and it has
to be severe repercussions for deviating
yeah so very very much about controlling
Jordan goes on about this Jordan
Peterson it's like one of his pet
subjects yeah that this is where this
goes this is all about control and that
it's a very slippery slope and when you
start telling people what to do and what
not to do and that there's like these
these indefensible undebatable standards
that have to be reinforced and you can't
talk about it like and that's what
happens me and Kelly she's our well how
come I know I get the fuck out of here
sixty million dollar job again the
crucial moment for me is why is it that
the apology isn't good enough then this
isn't this but what
is by all appearances a sincere apology
yes like like where the link there is no
link to real racism like there's no link
to like oh yeah I want to live in a
society where black people have it
harder than white people right like okay
if that's if that's who you are if
you're a legit racist well then fine we
know we can understand why we want to
boycott your business or we want to you
know you you know you we want nothing to
do with you right there should be
massive social pressure against those
kinds of noxious political commitments
but if someone misspeaks
or it's an off-color joke and they
weren't it's like they weren't trying to
offend anyone and they're just you know
they wish they could take it back and
like and and and that links up with I
mean did you see you must have seen the
nor McDonald
yes I mean that was brutal yeah right
like it's what he was you know he knew
he couldn't use the word retard right
because it's like that that's gonna get
him in trouble and so I mean it's
hilarious and explain what happened okay
so he was he was on Howard Stern chair
wasn't he
I think I think I saw you say he was a I
could have this wrong but the gist of
this is is right I believe he's on the
Howard Stern Show and he was about to
use the word retard so so okay
a little walk this back now it's coming
back to me he was defend he was talking
about his friend the ordeal that louis
c.k has gone through in this just
massive exile experience right so
there's massive social shunning and he
said he was describing it in a way where
it he then got accused that he was cared
more about what louis c.k was going
through than the women who felt
victimized by louis c.k and that was not
his intention at all apparently and so
when he went to a to clarify this he was
about to say but you'd have to be
retarded to think that i cared more
about louis ck's ordeal than the ordeal
of these women who had you know felt
their careers got derailed right but as
the word retard was comin retarded was
coming out of his mouth he tried to
course-correct and because he doesn't
know what the fuck
he's talking about he says you'd have to
have down syndrom right right which is
worse right it's more specific and it's
like and then you got all these parents
with Down syndrome who have kids Down
syndrome who are just oh my god and so
now he's just but he's then he was he
was showed up on the view right would
this this on this apology tour and I
mean that's just amazing video to see
him on the view surrounded by these
these four women who know he's not a bad
guy right like they're trying they're
trying to throwing him lifeline after
lifeline and he's so beaten down right
yeah and he's so walking on eggshells
and you got Whoopi Goldberg you know
trying to just just pull him back you
know from the Lions and it should be I
mean it should be so straightforward
like it does is it part of norms goal to
cause pain for parents who have kids
with mental disabilities right no I mean
like it like like you you could you can
look in you can look into this guy's
eyes for it for ten seconds and know
that this is not the bigot you're
worried about right right for of course
you know and and yet people just want
him destroyed I don't know if they still
do but it's like that the moment would
like it was you know I think it was a
real concern that his his show would get
cancelled I mean like this was a well it
hasn't been purchased for a second
season and that's maybe that's part of
the problem he was it is part of the
problem he was devastated I mean I'm
very good friends with Adam Egan he's a
guy who runs the Comedy Store is the
talent director at The Comedy Store and
he's been on Norm's show he was on norms
he was like norms sidekick on a show
he's a very good friend would not write
and norm really suffered from this in a
way that he never suffered from anything
in his career in terms of like his own
personal feeling like he was devastated
by it by the blowback and the reaction
and he wanted to come on my podcast and
talk about it but Netflix is like
Netflix had no press don't have anything
no press okay but so the fact that you
can't talk your way out of yes that's
the fucking disease well the problem is
not that you can't talk your way out of
it the problems that they wouldn't even
let
him attempt to talk your way out of it
because they I think they realized that
norms of maniac and norm is a maniac in
the best sense of the word
he's one of my favorite comics and he's
hilarious fucking hilarious but he's
also completely crazy in the best way
possible Norman I randomly into some
strange way randomly were seated next to
each other on two separate flights oh
yeah
just randomly it's crazy like norm again
like this is crazy and we had a great
time just talking the entire flight and
we were talking about cigarette smoke
yeah yeah yeah I used to smoke I'm so
glad I quit fucking terrible for you you
know yeah I mean it's just but I you
know I just always wanted a cigarette
and then I'd be gambling I want a
cigarette but I quit fuck fuck cigarette
so how long did you quit Neely I've been
had a cigarette in years oh my god
that's great we land at LAX he goes
right into a storm buy cigarettes I go
what are you doing goes all that talk of
cigarettes I just want one now he was
lighting it on the way out the door he
couldn't get out the door he lit it
before he did you know the automatic
door he was before it was opening he was
lighting that cigarette I was like
you're crazy but that's many many
comedians are incredibly impossible this
is norm I mean he's just well he's got
such a he's so off kilter he's got a
sort of Garry Shandling and crate like
you don't know what's going to come out
his mouth and brainiest less but okay we
we have to be with let's put this back
into the diversity Olympics we need some
respect for neuro diversity yes right
there are people who are somewhere on
the spectrum toward autism right there's
people who are that there's there
spectrums we don't even know about we
aren't we haven't named sure and
everyone is in some weird spot and
people misspeak right you there has to
be a way back to say that's not what I
meant right like like this is like
offending people of this type was not my
intention at some level that has to be
good enough unless you know we open your
closet and we see that you've got
swastikas on you know everywhere you
know and so I think we we have to we
have to hold the line here you know yeah
and very few people are in a position to
be able to do it I mean you know like
you know Netflix and net
flix doesn't feel that can do it well
Netflix is just so terrified of
continual blowback and they thought like
if we're gonna save this show the way to
save it is to get him to stop talking
right he's just gonna just take his
other foot and take other people's feet
and stuff them in its mouth as well I
think one thing that might help to
illuminate our understanding of how
people behave is what you really enjoy
talking about and you really definitely
changed my way of looking at things that
they're really essentially the concept
of free will is a very flawed thing and
that you have to really take into
consideration who a person is right now
and what what has caused them to be this
person right now and that a lot of us
are operating on this really bizarre
momentum of our pasts and our behavior
and our genetics and life experiences
and all these different variables that
really need to be taken into account
this idea that you are autonomous and
you are the director of your own life is
true to a certain extent but it's also
very complicated much more complicated
than we would like to admit and when
you're talking about something that
happened when you were 17 like Brett
Kavanaugh or something like that like
yeah but Jesus Christ you know you're
gonna hold a 55 man 55 year old man
accountable to something that he did
when he was 17 it wasn't a crime that
girl and you're not exactly sure what
happened that's this is all very strange
this is very strange stuff well so
taking the red pill on on freewill
makes you much more forgiving of a lot
of this stuff yeah cuz you see just
everyone is an open system
no one authored themselves no one
created themselves no one no one can
directly regulate the effect that of
every influence that they had or didn't
have you know it's like you are the
totality of what brought to you here I
mean the universe is sort of just pushed
you to this point in time and the only
thing you've got is your brain and it
states and that is that is based on your
genes and the totality of environmental
influences you you as a system have have
had working on you up until this moment
and so
the next words that come out of your
mouth are part of that process now
the people some people find this to be a
you know frankly demoralizing picture I
think well okay well I'm you're telling
me telling me I'm just a robot but
you're a robot that is open continuously
open to influence to influence of you
internally based on its own processes I
mean there's like there's top-down
control of you know the executive
function in the brain to your you know
your emotional life say and you're
continually open to the influences of
culture right you know the culture is
this operating system that you're
interacting with in each moment and
whatever's getting in can change you in
radical ways very quickly there's no
telling how much you can change on the
basis of one new idea coming your way
right now I would argue that that
process of change I mean if I say
something that changes your view on
anything that's not evidence of free
will that is evidence of just yet more
causality I mean you don't you don't
pick the changes that come your way if I
if I get you to see something that you
didn't see a moment before you're not
responsible for the fact that you didn't
see at a moment before and you're not
responsible for the fact that you now
see it it's just like the dominoes just
kept falling right right but it does
give you this a far more patient sense
of one just it just you know all the
causes and conditions that that have
created this this odious behavior you're
now disposed to react to in the world
right like like you can everything on
some level is more of a force of nature
than it is something that you need to
take personally it's like if there's a
hurricane blowing outside we don't
respond to it the same way we would
respond to you know al Qaeda and
dropping a bomb on us right it might it
might create the same amount of damage
but the in in the in the latter case
where we have an identified entity
we feel like okay now we're in the
presence of human evil and we have to go
kill these motherfuckers right now we
may have to kill them right
that may be the only way of putting out
this this you know stopping the damage
there they're committed to causing but
and we would kill hurricanes if we could
kill them right I mean we would you know
we would nullify them but the feeling we
have in both cases is very different the
feeling you have attributing ultimate
authorship to a person's behavior is
super narrow psychologically and
ethically and it's you know the feeling
of vengeance right like like you don't
you you don't you have a you this
feeling of vengeance is so natural to
get triggered in response to a person
it's not natural in response to a wild
animal who may have done something
terrible right I mean like you would
like I mean there's been examples of
this where people have taken vengeance
on animals and it just looks like a kind
of moral dysfunction on the part of the
people who did it I mean there's a
famous picture of a an elephant that got
hung from a railroad crane I think back
in the 20s right so look at this the
circus elephant escaped and it ran you
know it rampage through the streets and
it trampled you know a few people and
that and the people and the in the town
I don't know where this was it was a
Baltimore or someplace
we're so outraged that they've decided
to lynch the elephant right like and yet
that's there's something uncanny about
that sort of misappropriation of agency
to an elephant what is it what is a
mistreated circus elephant gonna do when
it gets out and it's terrified and it's
trying to get away from people it's
gonna trample a few people so we have a
very different set of books we keep
ethically for humans and but some of its
understandable some of its inevitable
but a lot of it gives us moral illusions
that we don't need to have and it gives
it it gives us a kind of just an
inability to take stock of all the
variables that are actually guiding
human behavior and react to them and
mitigate them and disincentivize them
intelligently
I mean punishment makes sense not
because people really really deserve at
bottom whatever their punishments are it
doesn't make sense in a in a retributive
paradigm it makes sense
if it if it's the the best tool to
discourage dangerous behavior and it
works right so it's like you know if
you're if you're going to punish people
for things they can't control well
that's stupid
right because it you you as much as you
punish them that you're not going to
you're not going to moderate the
behavior so you have to punish people
for things that are actually under
voluntary control and it only it only
makes sense if it's the only tool to do
the job and if the moment you have I
mean this is a I may have brought this
up last time we spoke about free will
but this is really the sort of reductio
ad absurdum of where most people are on
this topic the moment we really
understand human evil at the level of
the brain the moment we understand
psychopathy se which is I mean maybe
that's not the totality of evil but
let's you know certainly center of the
bullseye once we understand psychopathy
is a neurological condition that's
governed by genes and environment and we
can we can actually intrude at the level
of the brain to mitigate it so like so
psychopathy becomes a disease right it
becomes a an injury a syndrome right
that we can fix and let's say it's let's
say it's a very simple fix let's say
it's a pill right let's say it's just a
neurotransmitter imbalance in the
presence of that breakthrough we will
feel very differently about that species
of human evil we will not judge it in
the same way will because what will
happen is you'll give people the pill
and they'll say fuck I can't believe I
was that dangerous asshole like I gotta
thank you for like like I I'm as
horrified by who I was before you cured
me as you were right and it's totally
soso suck psychopathy in the presence of
a cure for it would look much more like
diabetes than it looks like evil in the
present case and people aren't imagining
what it would like what it would be like
to be there what it would be like to
actually fully understand the underlying
neural physiology here and actually have
something that means there's no
guarantee we'll be able to to deal with
it in a simple way but it's certainly
possible
and I mean the classic example is just
like the Charles Whitman example where
you know you have a brain tumor that's
causing this aberrant behavior in that
case everyone everyone sees okay this is
not evil this is a brain tumor that's
the tower shooter yeah yeah back in 64 I
think and so but in the same way that a
brain tumor
tumors exculpatory there I think a full
understanding of the underlying
neurology would be exculpatory again it
doesn't mean you in the meantime but you
know before we get there we obviously we
have to lock up dangerous people if
there's no way to to help them but the
more we see the causes the more we view
this in terms of just sheer bad luck
right like like there are there are
people who when they're adults are
quintessentially evil who we and they
they provoke the greatest feeling of
vengeance from us but if you just walk
back their timeline you recognize that
at a certain they were four years old at
one point right they were the four year
old who was destined to become this
terrible person right it's an unlucky
four-year-old right you know and so at
what point where is the bright line that
says okay here's the point where it's
appropriate to just hate this person and
feel no compassion and it on the other
side of this line you should just feel
compassion because this person is
unlucky there is no such line and a
complete understanding of this lifeline
in in scientific terms would obliterate
any line you think you have right it
would just be this cascade of causation
and you know adding randomness to the
picture doesn't help right it's just
it's the randomness is just you know
somebody's in your brain rolling dice
and influencing your behavior that way
well that doesn't give you the the free
will people think they have so there
isn't there's ironically there is what
seems on some level deflationary of the
the the the gravitas of the human spirit
for people opens the door to
at least in my view a far more ethical
and tolerant and patient and
understanding view of of you know human
failings and and human frailty and and
just and then at that point you can just
have a conversation about what's
pragmatic what works what helps people
change like in this this person over
here who's doing terrible things is
there something we can do to make him a
better person well if there is let's do
that without all the judgment wouldn't
it be amazing if that's how we treated
these public shaming events like
wouldn't wouldn't it be amazing if we
gave someone an opportunity to say this
is this is what I did this is how awful
I feel about this
I would never do that again I'm a
different person that was twenty years
ago or whatever it is and and have
everybody join in hey anyone could be
you thank you for being honest about who
you are now
thank you for evolving thank you for
expressing yourself in a way that maybe
other people who have also committed
really on just unsavory or just
unfortunate things in the past
unfortunate acts in the past they can
feel relieved by the fact that you've
grown and evolved to become a better
person oh yeah and that you're you're a
different thing now and you are the
product of all of your experiences
you're not you're not this one thing
you're not stuck in who you were when
you were 16 years old but if you were
Marky Mark and you hit that guy with a
stick whatever you know whatever he did
you didn't you're not stuck in that spot
forever these don't mark it's not a
Scarlet Letter it's not a mark on your
forehead that you keep for life yeah I
mean I think about the Liam Neeson
incident which I find so interesting is
that there's a case where I mean what
he's revealing about himself is is
pretty amazing right it's like it's like
he just decided okay we need a you know
a Truth and Reconciliation Commission
for who I used to be right you know and
just volunteered this and for me like
you know I don't actually understand
that State of Mind I mean there are many
aberrant states of mind that I can
understand I certainly understand what
it's like to want to harm somebody and
you know to feel vengeance and all that
but the instrumental violence piece I
don't understand
I've never felt like okay this type of
person wronged me or someone close to me
so any to any person of that type will
do right like that right but that is
such a problem the world over in human
history yes that it is it is just
fascinating ethically for someone of his
you know stature to reveal that about
himself and he put it in terms of of
Honor I mean it's like it was an honor I
mean this is what this is what what is
so dysfunctional about on or culture
right this is what you this is what we
see more in the South and anywhere else
in the country and this is what you see
basically everywhere you go in the
middle east is just and this is what
islam inculcates to a degree that's
fairly unmatched in in its community
this notion of honor is does link up
with this tendency to find satisfaction
in instrumental violence like but when
you when you try to run that software on
my brain that just looks like madness
right the idea that any other person
will do right of a certain type right
that's just you know I I don't read that
resonates not at all
right and so it's just damn interesting
and the fact that the lesson being taken
from this seems to be this is the this
should be the end of your career for
having talked about this in the way and
again I've been you know apologies if
there's some part of the story that I've
gotten wrong I'm not missing or missing
but it seemed to me that he was always
counting this in the the horror and
amazement appropriate to the to the
disclosure like he can't believe he was
inhabiting this state of consciousness
and you know it's just an amazing thing
to reveal about yourself so yeah and I'm
sure he regrets every second of it yeah
and that's that's the wrong fucking
punchline yeah right you know and the
the thing that should happen is someone
with a lot to lose
should be able to say you know how ugly
a human mind can be this is an
experience I had right this is who I was
and you know how much I have to live for
and how much I have to lose we have to
talk about this kind of mania that can
get humming in on a human brain right
right we see this eight every time you
open the paper you see someone in the
grip of this kind of thing right it even
happened to me right I think it's an
amazing conversation to start in the
fact that the result is just you know
and an auto-da-fe
is is is the problem we're trying to
fight our way through it isn't it
because there's too many voices I mean
there's just so many people that are
reacting to it if he's dealing with he's
not dealing with three or four or five
voices he's dealing with millions of
people to get to chime in on this yeah
and get a few thousand of those people
that are furious at you you know like
you were saying like this it doesn't
doesn't that doesn't work I was just
about to say I was gonna make it
comparison your podcast with Jack that
you're not listening to them not reading
the comments but he's he's getting this
gigantic signal from a huge number of
people you know so this is all over my
Google newsfeed I saw it on Yahoo I saw
it and all these different publications
are talking about Liam Neeson's case and
so then everybody starts chiming in and
then the virtru signaling ratio is very
high and the anger ratio is very higher
than the people who think he's secretly
still racist and doesn't want to admit
it it's very high yeah and then there's
also the fact that he's a man of wealth
and privilege and he's successful and
famous and there's gotta be a bunch of
jealousy that's attached to that and a
bunch of people that want to knock him
down cuz he's at a very high hill yeah
there's a lot going on there
and I I don't know I feel I I feel for
the guy again I don't know him but I
just I remember again forgive me if I
get this slightly wrong but I isn't it
true that like his wife Natasha
Richardson just died in this freak
accident but she's seen Siddhant fell
and hit her head but but honestly she
didn't even fall she wasn't moving when
she fell she was standing on a ski slope
and fell from a standing position and
hit her head on the you know the hard
snow obviously and I mean it's just it's
all it takes yeah
it's brutal yeah so and on top of that I
believe his cousin or his nephew nephew
or niece died the same way not the same
way in terms of fell skiing but also hit
their head and Ride Wow so it's like
Jesus Christ this book this guy and
obviously there's many people out there
that experience it far greater tragedies
I'm not trying to quantify it but yeah
he's uh you know he he tried to talk
about a real thing you know tried to
talk about a real thing and he's he's
given some interview since then where's
you know he said I look I'm not a racist
I'm just telling you I was in such a
fucked up state of mind because of this
rape that I was willing to do something
irrational and horrible yeah
but he didn't know it's what he did is
interesting yeah exactly yeah but and
and but again it was take it full circle
people these same people who are calling
for his head are prepared to forgive
other people who did you know that thing
right it's all it's it's so dependent
like I had Mike Tyson on the podcast and
one of the things that I got when I said
it was um part about that was fast I've
asked so many people like fuck that
rapist fuck nice guy fuck that all these
different things about him what I wanted
to get into him with him was who he was
when he was 12 years old when he was a
little boy when he met custom motto and
was taught out of box and was fuckin
hypnotized and this is one of the really
important things that came out of that
podcast was custom auto who was not just
this boxing legend who took in this
young kid from the ghetto that didn't
have a family but also hypnotized him
hypnotized him to be a destroyer he
specifically was saying to him you don't
exist
the task exists you're gonna move
forward you're gonna bob and weave and
rip the body and he was programming this
kid to get incredible amounts of
positive response from violent acts
violent acts in a boxing ring and that's
where he got his identity that's where
he got all of his love and so he became
this guy and one of the things that I
said to him I said did anybody ever
teach you how to turn it off he's like
no no he did like I'm no I'm no Mike
Tyson and I was never like that I was
never like that but I was far more
violent when I was fighting far more
violent far more prone to violence
it was my trigger was very short because
I was already thinking about it all
fighting all the time I thought I
probably had a hundred fights
I was ready to go like your your brain
has if you're if you're getting kicked
in the face and punched in the face a
lot and you're doing it through your
developmental period from the time
you're 50 for me was 15 from him was
like 12 or 13 you have a different way
of looking at the world because this is
also in the recipes yeah and the recipes
are also you might get knocked the fuck
out you might get head kicked you might
get kicked in the neck with a shin and
you know you wake up and your friends
are slapped me in the face of putting
ice on you this is all real and when you
have that the the positive that comes
from that when you're a 12 year old boy
and you're hypnotized by this great man
who's teaching you how to fight and
you're getting so much love you've never
gotten love in your life you've never
gotten positive feedback and you're
getting so much of it from this and then
no one's teaching you how to turn it off
and you're wondering why this guy would
grows up to become a fuckin maniac as
punching people in the street is just
just crazy and yelling the reporters
I'll fuck you in the ass white boy all
that crazy shit that he did yeah he was
a maniac I mean there's no no one taught
him how to reflect there was no Sam
Harris app for meditation for Mike Tyson
in 1986 you know he was just a maniac
boy yeah I mean one problem we have here
is that we we don't have a norm around a
good norm around mental health yeah and
we have--we've like this zero norms
around mental training right so I mean
it's a physical training there's a very
good analogy between meditation as
mental training which sounds just
esoteric and whew right sounds like
new-age you know specious nonsense to
many people but if you roll back the
clock a hundred years physical training
made no sense there was no norms around
I mean the only guy lifting a dumbbell
was that guy with the handlebar mustache
and a leopard you know a bikini or
whatever it was wearing at the freakshow
right yeah you know the singlet yeah and
now we have a we have a total
understanding of the norms around
physical training yeah oh you're just
you're actually a freak if you don't do
some kind of exercise well they all dos
have even changed and evolved over the
last decade or so yeah yeah it
far more complicated and nuanced it's
continually evolving but the the
framework that the paradigm the fact
that there's something to do to get
better physically and that those those
changes matter they they you can engage
your body intelligently so as to improve
it and uh you know many different
variables flexibility strength
that's all totally understood and now
we're just refining the protocol with
mental training and specifically the
training of attention and how you
respond to the the uprising of your own
negative emotion right that is something
that has been going on for thousands of
years in contemplative mostly Eastern
context and that's something that you
know Buddhism really has a lot of
specifically an asymmetric amount of
wisdom to to share on and it's um yeah I
mean I'm I'm I'm very excited to be
spending more time on it because it's
that the locus of so much of the
fragmentation are in our lives now is
the smartphone what's hat what the what
this thing is doing to us is continually
amplifying not only our desire for
approval but the the ability to react in
a like so there's just no reason to
hesitate to condemn this thing that
you're seeing it like your this this
upwelling of negative emotion you see
the out the outrage you feel when you
see something on Twitter right is it's
shortening everybody's views right it's
making road rage more of a kind of a
general feature of our of our lives and
this is this is all trainable like you
can actually you can actually learn that
when you suddenly feel anger in response
to something that seems to have you know
happened in the world if you just pay
attention to the experience of anger you
just feel the end of the mere physiology
of it and get out of your thoughts about
it like you actually you notice thought
as a process you let that go you're not
continuing to have a calm
with yourself about all the reasons why
you should be angry or you should attack
this person and you've just become
interested in in anger as a response the
half-life of the emotion is like seconds
right it's impossible to stay angry for
very long if you get out of the story
you're telling yourself about why you
should be angry now there are certain
situations where angers is appropriate
and it's good to have access to that
energy I'm not I'm not advocating that
everyone just get lobotomized and not
react to anything but until you can
actually be mindful I mean mindful is
the technical word for what what this is
and until you can actually get out of
the that the thoughts and just pay
attention to - in this case a negative
emotion you have zero choice you're
gonna stay angry for as long as you stay
angry for and people have this
experience of being angry for days about
things we're being angry for hours there
is no way to stay angry for more than
moments if unless you're just lost in
the story and it becomes a kind of
superpower to be able to say do I need
to be angry about this or like how
useful is it to stay angry about this
and and you can just get off the ride
right you can literally like you know I
see a tweet from somebody who's trying
to destroy my life and I feel this
initial you know contraction and I can
decide how long I want to feel that way
for right and that's an amazing thing to
be able to do and it's based on a kind
of training that very few people know
even exists and that and and so again
it's like you're like I'm now the guy in
the in the leopard singlet right mm-hmm
but it's um you know more and more we're
going to understand that this is just
has to be part of everybody's toolkit
well it would be amazing if they were
taught kids that in school if you have
to learn that when you're learning math
and history people are doing that if I
my wife actually does that really in
high school six-year-olds whoa you can't
eat you can teach mindfulness too I mean
in the beginning what they're learning
is just basic awareness of their inner
lives right like just being able to name
the emotion they're feeling is an
amazing capacity in a six-year-old like
a six-year-old is just acting out
something and you're now teaching them
to know in that moment that what's
pushing them from behind is sadness or
anger or embarrassment or psyche like
just to be able just to have that
recursive ability to reflect that's
already a major gain and in in kids that
age but yeah you can learn it very early
actually this was something I was
talking about with Stephen Fry on my
podcast Stephen was very skating he's
actually he's adorable he's well I won't
like that nicely the broadcast I really
enjoyed that
yeah yeah he's just here in the presence
of just such a nice guy guys radiates
you know decency but he was you know
fairly skeptical of just like why would
you ever have to train mindfulness or
meditation yeah I mean the analogy that
came up came up to me he came before me
on the fly there was that it is actually
a lot like learning to read in the sense
that none of us remember having the
haven't gone through the ordeal of
learning to read right now that learning
to read was a hassle right like that did
not come easily to most people and yet
now is just now you if you look at a
page of text in a language you
understand you can't help but decode it
right it's just an effortless and so the
I mean this is these kinds of emotional
tools and and and cognitive tools just
the ability to self-regulate emotion in
by becoming aware of it as a process
that is something that I think we could
teach kids much earlier and then we
would be in the presence of young adults
who would naturally have a facility for
it that where they won't even they
wouldn't even remember how hard it was
to acquire it yeah what I was talking
about earlier with Mike Tyson and you
know his his coaching and his I mean he
essentially got mental coaching on how
to accomplish one thing mental coaching
on how to have the perfect mindset for
one thing how to how to kick people's
ass yeah what he didn't have was mental
coaching on how to deal with the
pressures of
life especially life I mean and almost
no one really understands what life is
like to be a famous 20 year old
heavyweight champion of the world I mean
there's no one had to be Italian
it's got to be alien I mean and to ask
this kid to manage this state when you
know you're talking about someone who
just six years prior was virtually
homeless and had no love in his life at
all and was being hypnotized by some
madman who's a you know a boxing wizard
who lives in the Catskills and did what
we were talking about earlier about who
you are now versus who you were twenty
thirty years ago when you meet Mike
Tyson now Mike Tyson is the sweetest
nicest friendliest guy he's so
soft-spoken he's really kind he hugs
people he's a really nice guy you know
and at one point time he was a scariest
motherfucker on the planet Earth yeah
there's actually there's another sort of
uncanny valley here in martial arts
training that I spent a lot of time in
when you're training in martial arts and
seeing the world through this lens of
violence and potential violence but your
training in a way that's never really
putting your skills to the test so
you're you're basically your as a young
man you're living with this fundamental
uncertainty as to whether or not you
actually are capable of anything
yes so you're training in like fake
martial arts right right or at least
martial arts where most of it is it kind
of pantomime of violence and it's not
being pressure tested so it's not like
you where you're competing and you know
what it's like to kick someone in the
head and it actually works right it's
like this is your sparring but it's all
yeah you have to keep everything safe
right you know rowdy yeah
or even if it's full contact you have
headgear and you've got this is like
you're not there's still basic
uncertainty about what's gonna go down
on the street if you know if right if
it's in the presence of real violence
and they're you're you know especially
as a teenager you're in this fairly
toxic state of like sort of always
preparing for violence that it still is
in you know in most people's lives a
pretty low order of probability that
it's going to occur and yet it's all
it's also backed by this fear of
you know you just kind of the ego fear
maybe you're just full of shit right and
you're just you're just gonna get your
ass kicked if this ever happens and with
someone like you know someone who's a
really obvious ly someone like Mike
Tyson there shouldn't there shouldn't be
any uncertainty about like he's got
nothing to prove he's in a bar and
somebody says you know what are you
looking at at minimum he doesn't have
this fear of like if he if he walks away
from that challenge
he knows he's walking away not because
he was scared maybe he's gonna lose a
fistfight with this guy right he's the
best boxer on earth at that moment it's
it's that history he's got way more to
lose than the other guy like why does he
want to be rolling around in a parking
lot with you know some stranger you know
so it's so there's this this is very
unhappy place that a lot of martial
artists are in which is you know they
don't actually know what they are
they're capable of and they're they're
living all the time with this this you
know just kind of training software
running in their heads and it's it's um
it's a weird space to be in well it's
one of the things that's so great about
Brazilian jiu-jitsu exactly the
Brazilian jiu-jitsu you I mean you're
not getting punched and you're not
getting kicked but you are absolutely
going full blast and you have a hundred
percent confidence once you reach a
certain level that you could do that to
an untrained person within its frame you
are pressure testing it and you know
that it works yes now you don't you know
I would argue there people still lose
sight of the fact that in reality people
can people are punching and they're not
training a lot of punching or defense
and then there are weapons and then
there's a guy's friend who can come up
and start kicking you in your head just
so you know it's like like how good an
idea was it to pull guard when you know
someone else can walk up but you know
yeah it's within its you know within its
purview yeah you're not the you're
working out all of your illusions and
that's yeah that's that's one reason why
so many of us find it addictive you know
it's just yeah there's that and there's
also they're so nice yeah jujitsu people
are so friendly and I think that's one
of the reasons why there's some
friendlies they're not carrying around
all that bullshit that a lot of people
carry around including you know there's
some grown men that have never been in a
fight in their life and they get a
couple of beers in them they start
talking crazy shit and I came in you
don't even know how to fight you know
what do you do just like crazy it's like
who wants to jump into a NASCAR race you
never driven a car like stop and they're
talking to some guy with cauliflower ear
you don't even know what that means
right yeah it's I mean to be a human
being is complicated to be a man in in
the face of altercations with other men
is uniquely complicated you know the
kind of altercations that men get into
the kind of bravado and chest puffing
and shit-talking and the consequences of
those things like you were talking about
Liam Neeson his wife falling down and
hitting her head a friend of mine was
working in a bar and in Long Island and
one of the bouncers got in a fight with
some guy and punched the guy knocked him
out the guy fell back hit his head off
the curb and died and that happens all
the time and people get knocked out they
hit their head on the ground they die
yeah yeah I actually I did when I before
I had a podcast and I was getting my
midlife crisis took the form of me
getting really back into martial arts
again for after a hiatus of maybe 25
years I had a lawyer who focused on a
self-defense law he was he constantly
dealing with cases where someone is
either either claiming self-defense or
it's a legit self-defense claim but
they're basically screwed I mean they're
like they punched someone and that
person fell down on the hit a fire
hydrant diet right likely so they're
they're trying to beat a murder rap you
know and so I just had him you know blog
post had him walk me and I had a bunch
of I had two people comment ask
questions as well I had Matt Thornton
the the who's John Kavanagh is jiu-jitsu
coach asked questions in this blog post
and I had Rory Miller who's a self
defense trainer just just to try to
flesh out all of the things you should
be thinking about when you're the kind
of person who is that all preparing for
the possible eventualities of violence
because people who train with guns or
own own guns or carry knives or do
martial arts don't actually understand
what happens when you know the like they
agree to
fight somebody or they like it unless
you unless your mo is and this should be
your mo to avoid violence at all
virtually any cost right like you're
always just trying to leave the premises
if there's some sort of challenge that
could become violence if that's not your
your mo you're just wandering into
potential situations where you can find
yourself in court for having shoved a
guy and he you know fell into the street
and gotten run over right you're like
and then now you're the guy who's
looking at the prospect of going to
prison for you know for a murder or you
know second-degree murder and so anyway
I had him walk me through all of the the
ins and outs of all that it was it was a
fascinating conversation because yeah
there are people who you know I mean
they're extreme cases they're they're
women who have shot their coat Allah
crazy husband who's like waving a
baseball bat at their heads and they're
in prison for years for this you know
they're just real miscarriages of
justice were like the like he would
think that the the you know that it
would be very easy to prove that she was
in fear for her life in this case and
this was it was a legitimate use of
lethal force it's just so hard when no
one's there
yeah if no one's that I mean if you have
eyewitnesses or if you know it's a
public thing that happens and there's
video of it but you know someone does
something to someone and no one's around
you punch someone and they they get
knocked out and they die and you say no
this guy was threatening to kill me he
was chasing me he was threatening to
kill me I was terrified for my life he
lunged towards me I saw the opening I
took it and now he's dead you could go
to jail forever yeah I mean that's that
that's a reality I mean you should
absolutely without a doubt avoid
violence at all costs yeah but you
should also know how to fight anyway I
think that's very important it's very
important yeah but very few people train
so it's like in in the curriculum of the
coloring how to fight you know training
in in whatever martial art or arts
there's in most cases very little time
spent training avoidance yes right and
that's that's a real missing piece
because that is the most important thing
to train I mean yeah that's like you you
know especially if you have real skills
right especially if you're walkin around
armed right I mean that with one the one
interesting psychological corrective
that concealed-carry does for many
people is that once you're walking
around with a gun you realize what the
problem of what what any altercation can
become right like you're not gonna get
into a shoving match with somebody if
you're wearing a gun in your belt
because like if that escalates you're
pulling out your gun and then it's just
a decision whether to kill somebody
yeah so you know and you know I don't
have a ton of experience in this area
but you know for all the the firearm
training I've done with people I just
get you know you know I know only like
former SWAT operators who are you know
just out there constantly armed and
these are like the last guys who are
gonna get involved in anything I mean
they used to be cops but now they don't
even feel any burden to police and it's
like it's like they're just they're
retired and thematically retired right
because they just recognize how a
haywire anything can go for them if any
any process of conflict get started and
again I think this goes back to
understanding how to manage your mind
you know when the shit hits the fan and
things go crazy it's it's very difficult
for people to maintain a rational state
of mind and things can escalate so
quickly things can turn to violence so
quickly especially with irrational
people or untrained people or people
that aren't aware of consequences or
maybe can't process it well but and the
crucial piece which I'll you know
many seasoned fighters and and you know
professionals don't have or you know I
would think many don't have is this sort
of this this valley where your ego
concerns are not worked out it's like
when you when you when you feel the
emotional burden of a loss of face right
so like if jaakko willing cuz in a bar
and someone says something you know
nasty to him or to his wife
Jaakko doesn't have anything to prove
like Jocko knows he's a badass right so
Jocko knows that he just it's time to
get out of the bar because he doesn't
want to deal with this psychopath who
doesn't know who he's dealing with but
someone who's not trained like Jocko
right could feel that backing down
especially backing down in front of your
wife or your girlfriend that is such an
ego blow that you know the temptation to
get into this this monkey dance where
the other person is just is it's
impossible to recover from it's a very
dangerous game yeah yeah and people get
into it all the time and I've seen so
many people get into it that just don't
they don't have any cards yeah yeah god
damn it man just stop doing this you
know I'm look yeah I've been doing
martial arts my whole whole life and I'm
terrified of fights
I see fights is like yet the fuck out of
here before this goes bad when it goes
sideways you know men are just so we
have thousands of years of awful DNA you
know we really do we're violent and
reach of thousands was variance yeah
violence was imperative it was
imperative for survival you had you had
to be able to react and react quickly
and yeah you had to know what to do with
your genes are never going to make it to
the next stage which is this is a
controversial thing to say and I got in
trouble or one of my podcast guests
Gavin de Becker the security guru got in
trouble in my podcast talking about the
primacy of intuition here like like our
intuitions are actually really good for
detecting something that makes us
uncomfortable about another person right
and this is this becomes politically
incorrect really fast right because it's
like you know if you see a guy on an
elevator
who makes you uncomfortable you know
Gavin's advice and I think I think the
real Saint advice is just don't get on
but there are many people who get on
just because they want to prove they're
not racist right or they're it's like
and and I actually know someone who was
in a situation like that and it didn't
work out well and so I mean intuition is
bad for so many things we we have
terrible intuitions for
statistics and probability theory and
it's like we're reliably you know whole
careers and Nobel Prizes have been won
on you know people like you know Danny
Kahneman have have shown us how it's not
only that our intuitions are bad for for
these judgments but they're reliably bad
and we can understand there's a there's
a structure to how bad they are but for
judging people who are dangerous you
know who give us the who make who make
the hair stand up on the back of our
neck for reasons we can't understand you
know for where the eye contact was wrong
or though or that's just the way they
were you know I mean just like a what's
called a witness check you know like
someone comes up to you it engages you
and then they look just they just kind
of look to check for witnesses right now
like that people don't aren't aware that
that's even a thing right but when like
that body language is very salient to us
and and there are there hundreds of
things like that that that we
immediately feed that prompt you know an
intuitive response and these are
intuitions that are you know from a
self-defense point of view are worth
listening to because it's like the worst
case scenario is you wind up being a
little rude there yeah I like like sorry
I'm a you know I can't talk but people
are you know people are very
dogmatically being kind of trained to
ignore those kind of those kinds of
intuitions what do you think those
intuitions are like what do you think
intuitions are like when you meet
someone you go those person feels
dangerous like what is that what's
happening well there's a lot of it you
know the gaze detection is a big one I
mean we and what people do with their
eyes is a is a major variable and just
how we feel that you know the the
relationship is going but it's and
there's their micro expressions that we
notice in people that we're not aware of
noticing you know but like it's just
there's this is this is not well
understood and we're bad judges of
whether someone is telling the truth I
mean this is this has been fairly well
said
they're people who even people who work
for the FBI are not you know much better
than chance in detecting whether
somebody's lying but there's just we get
so much information by you know body
language and being in somebody's
presence and we get it so fast that it's
again and I mean that there you whether
we understand it or not there are
evolutionary reasons why this is so I
mean if we've evolved for anything as
social primates we have evolved to
detect stuff that just is a precursor to
violent intent in in others you think
it's just gays or do you think you can
sense the energy of someone there's
certainly the movements that people make
when they're thinking about hitting you
oh yeah yeah a certain like there's like
a twitchiness to them like oh well
pulled back like almost like a spring or
a bow there's like a feeling you get
around people that are looking to hit
people yeah well there's this uh but
again all of that still vision but
there's you know I mean who knows we're
detecting pheromones we could be
detecting people's level of stress I
mean just how tuned up they are you know
but and that this goes beyond this is
beyond just physical violence this is
just you know detecting Psychopaths who
are you know people who are manipulative
I mean just detecting there are there
ways to spot people lying you know and
just you know they're there tells like
you know too much information you know
like the people who are giving you
superfluous and superfluous information
as a kind of over correction because
they're anticipating that you're gonna
doubt their story and so they're filling
in like blanks that you don't even need
filled in right and and it's and there's
sort of patterns to - sort of - to that
but and again we we pick up on a lot of
this stuff without consciously being
aware of what's going on we just know
that that's like not a person I want to
spend any more time with right but you
know so there may be more of a
literature on this that I'm then I know
about but a lot of this is not well
understood and I mean have people like
Paul Ekman have done a lot of stuff on
my con
you know micro-expressions you know that
goes back probably thirty years at this
point and there are people who are
outliers who are great at detecting
micro-expressions where they really they
really just understand what's going on
but it's it's not and AI eventually will
be if it is not there already will be
much better than we are doing this I'm
so scared of that I'm so scared of them
getting that wrong yeah yeah right
micro-expressions are funny because they
remind me of microaggressions which is
one of the you know one of the weirder
social justice warrior things like
things that used to be just slight swear
someone was just like slightly rude not
not even slightly just like where do you
come from right speaking with an accent
way from where your breasts from okay
are you yeah
how dare you question my authenticity
yeah no aggression so it's weird that
that's actually accepted that this is
something they're they're actually
pushing in certain schools that
microaggressions are a real real thing
christina hoff sommers just wrote
something about or she she put something
on her Twitter today about a Yale
article that was written today that was
put out today about documenting
politically incorrect behavior so that
someday in the future when someone is
running for Congress or is up for
Supreme Court or something like that
you could go back to their college days
and remember when they said something
right I mean one of the examples this
woman uses in this post was compared a
woman to a large animal a woman's body
to a large animal in a private text
message that she should have oh I should
have just grabbed I should have yeah and
calls this guy in this this article
white boy this white boy does this and
the white boy with a saccharine smile
does that it's like which is like
overtly racist like they're just the
expression like right in the way that
she's describing it like it's as if this
evil character slowly makes his way to
run the world and he's been engineered
since the time he was in college
well that's it's gonna happen just by
just just based on everyone's use of the
tools yeah like that you know people are
not diligently scrubbing
they're they're digital history and
there may in fact be no way to actually
do it right and so they're just the
trailing them you know they're not even
aware of what they're trailing in social
media so so I mean maybe maybe that is
that will just be a cure for the problem
because it'll you know at a certain
point we'll be dealing with people who
were basically born they were born on
Facebook right like they don't even have
a moment like they've got their baby
picture there and everything that
followed right and then it'll just seem
completely untenable
like let's just accuse people of
everything yes everyone's guilty
everyone has said that dumb thing yeah
you know they because they matter of
taken the worst possible way and and if
they're gonna be hung from that then you
know no no one will survive well it
seems like that's what we're dealing
with right now with in a lot of cases
you know yeah yeah the what I think is
really important that what you were
saying earlier was that there has to be
some sort of path to redeeming
themselves that there has to be some
accepted way that someone can go about
redeeming themselves and we can allow
them to reenter society without
constantly bringing it up or judging
them by it or always attributing their
past behavior to who they are right now
I mean look at this should be so simple
but look at my collaboration with Maajid
Nawaz right so like Raj we were on this
podcast together yeah maajid was
scheming to form a global Caliphate I
mean the the organization he was part of
him he wasn't a jihadist thankfully and
he wasn't actually blowing people up but
he was trying to get nuclear weapons in
in Pakistan into the hands of the worst
possible theocrats right
this was his budget with all of his
charisma and all of his energy and it's
like you know mantra is fantastic and he
used to a utterly nefarious purpose in
my world right you know if you know how
much that is an issue for me it's like
Mudgett and Margit and I are just
buddies now right so all I need is a
clear path that he took out of the
darkness to understand why he's a valid
collaborator now
you know actually on that point I've got
people breathing down my neck to tell
you that or tell your audience this is
how powerful you are in Joe Rogan that
the documentary is coming out on the are
collaboration and it's out now it's it
can be found out there it's called Islam
in the future of tolerance nice and it's
actually it's it's not bad it actually
captures the spirit of our collaboration
very well and if you know see it if only
to recognize how awesome aaj it is
because moderate is just a superstar and
the scariest thing about the state of
public opinion in the Muslim world from
my point of view is just how how hard a
job he has to just to have a
conversation in that community I mean
it's just you know he's so marginalized
and he's so reasonable you know but I
mean to come back to that original point
here's someone who was whose life was
purposed toward what you know what I
view is one of the most toxic projects I
can think of right you know give the
nuclear weapons to the people who want
to die as martyrs right that's the
project right and majah tis just an
absolutely awesome collaborator now
right so there's like we have to there
has to be a path through some sane
conversation to a reboot the real the
worry though for a lot of folks is that
you are not really being honest about
who you are currently you just want an
excuse to be relieved
except it's so clear in some of these
cases like it's clear let me take them
in the Norma Donald case it's just
utterly clear yeah right and I mean even
the inmate in Megyn Kelly's case utterly
clear like I don't think it unless she's
got some white supremacist you know side
gig that I'm not aware of she's just
like listen I'm clueless I said you know
I didn't realize yeah well they were
looking for an excuse to get rid of her
honestly right but I think that even if
they weren't I think that still very
likely would have been the end I mean
it's like even if her show had had
better ratings still that could have
been
unrecoverable air what if she was black
well they like it doesn't work the other
direction right the reverse plank and
she said what's so bad about blackface
well they could stay on the air that's
interesting
I I don't know I miss it certainly would
have been easier you know oh yeah yeah
what if Oprah's saying who cares you
want to pretend to be Diana Ross because
that was the the the thing was
pretending to be Diana Ross for
Halloween right yeah it would be Diana
Ross yeah I mean I got to think they
could get away with it but it's I mean
it was interesting the thing that
happened with louis c.k and ricky
gervais and Jerry Simon Chris Rock yes
that wasn't it because I remember when
that aired I think it was 2011 and I
remember there was nothing around that
it was it was totally fine yeah right
they were using the n-word I mean the
problem the thing that was too kind of
dishonest about the the Reese candle
isin of it was that in the context of
that conversation
it was framed by the fact that they
really were referencing one of the more
famous pieces of comedy in history and
they've read they were referencing Chris
Rock's act using the n-word right there
they're black people and then there ends
yeah and you Louie are an end right like
you're the only white guy I know who and
then they're so they're talking in that
context and anyway yeah it was it was
interested in how that almost I mean
that blew back against Ricky and and
yeah that's one of those things that
were they're just looking for more
things to be mad at Louis for yeah but
it but Ricky was also getting I think
the Chris Rock was a lot of shit yeah he
took a lot of shit for that because he
didn't there was no blowback yeah yeah
interesting times yes that's probably
good way to end it yeah three hours yeah
it is it is interesting times I mean
it's probably the most interesting times
of our lives in good ways and bad ways
yeah well we're um we're on the front
lines or something
so I mean you you know I I don't know if
you get enough credit for this but you
have like you pushed out into the space
that
no one even knew existed and I mean
you're like I honestly didn't even know
what a podcast was when you know like I
learned what a podcast was when I got
invited to get interviewed on your
podcast the first time you know so it's
like it's awesome what you've created
here so thank you it's all it's an
accident you know I just stuck with it
yeah stumbled upon it yeah and kept
going well I'm good at that keep it up
thank you
thank you you too yeah Sam Harris ladies
and gentlemen
[Music]
[Applause]